Cloud computing is the on-demand availability of computer system resources, especially data storage and computing power, without direct active management by the user. The term is generally used to describe data centers available to many users over the Internet. Large clouds, predominant today, often have functions distributed over multiple locations from central servers. If the connection to the user is relatively close, it may be designated an edge server.Clouds may be limited to a single organization (enterprise clouds[1][2]), or be available to many organizations (public cloud).Cloud computing relies on sharing of resources to achieve coherence and economies of scale.Advocates of public and hybrid clouds note that cloud computing allows companies to avoid or minimize up-front IT infrastructure costs. Proponents also claim that cloud computing allows enterprises to get their applications up and running faster, with improved manageability and less maintenance, and that it enables IT teams to more rapidly adjust resources to meet fluctuating and unpredictable demand,[2][3][4] providing the burst computing capability: high computing power at certain periods of peak demand.[5]Cloud providers typically use a "pay-as-you-go" model, which can lead to unexpected operating expenses if administrators are not familiarized with cloud-pricing models.[6]The availability of high-capacity networks, low-cost computers and storage devices as well as the widespread adoption of hardware virtualization, service-oriented architecture and autonomic and utility computing has led to growth in cloud computing.[7][8][9] By 2019, Linux was the most widely used operating system, including in Microsoft's offerings and is thus described as dominant.[10] The Cloud Service Provider (CSP) will screen, keep up and gather data about the firewalls, intrusion identification or/and counteractive action frameworks and information stream inside the network.[11]Cloud computing was popularized with Amazon.com releasing its Elastic Compute Cloud product in 2006.[12]References to the phrase "cloud computing" appeared as early as 1996, with the first known mention in a Compaq internal document.[13]The cloud symbol was used to represent networks of computing equipment in the original ARPANET by as early as 1977,[14] and the CSNET by 1981[15]—both predecessors to the Internet itself. The word cloud was used as a metaphor for the Internet and a standardized cloud-like shape was used to denote a network on telephony schematics. With this simplification, the implication is that the specifics of how the end points of a network are connected are not relevant for the purposes of understanding the diagram.[citation needed]The term cloud was used to refer to platforms for distributed computing as early as 1993, when Apple spin-off General Magic and AT&T used it in describing their (paired) Telescript and PersonaLink technologies.[16]  In Wired's April 1994 feature "Bill and Andy's Excellent Adventure II", Andy Hertzfeld commented on Telescript, General Magic's distributed programming language:"The beauty of Telescript ... is that now, instead of just having a device to program, we now have the entire Cloud out there, where a single program can go and travel to many different sources of information and create sort of a virtual service. No one had conceived that before. The example Jim White [the designer of Telescript, X.400 and ASN.1] uses now is a date-arranging service where a software agent goes to the flower store and orders flowers and then goes to the ticket shop and gets the tickets for the show, and everything is communicated to both parties."[17]During the 1960s, the initial concepts of time-sharing became popularized via RJE (Remote Job Entry);[18] this terminology was mostly associated with large vendors such as IBM and DEC.  Full-time-sharing solutions were available by the early 1970s on such platforms as Multics (on GE hardware), Cambridge CTSS, and the earliest UNIX ports (on DEC hardware). Yet, the "data center" model where users submitted jobs to operators to run on IBM mainframes was overwhelmingly predominant.In the 1990s, telecommunications companies, who previously offered primarily dedicated point-to-point data circuits, began offering virtual private network (VPN) services with comparable quality of service, but at a lower cost. By switching traffic as they saw fit to balance server use, they could use overall network bandwidth more effectively.[citation needed]  They began to use the cloud symbol to denote the demarcation point between what the provider was responsible for and what users were responsible for. Cloud computing extended this boundary to cover all servers as well as the network infrastructure.[19] As computers became more diffused, scientists and technologists explored ways to make large-scale computing power available to more users through time-sharing.[citation needed] They experimented with algorithms to optimise the infrastructure, platform, and applications to prioritize CPUs and increase efficiency for end users.[20]The use of the cloud metaphor for virtualized services dates at least to General Magic in 1994, where it was used to describe the universe of "places" that mobile agents in the Telescript environment could go. As described by 
Andy Hertzfeld:"The beauty of Telescript," says Andy, "is that now, instead of just having a device to program, we now have the entire Cloud out there, where a single program can go and travel to many different sources of information and create sort of a virtual service."[21]The use of the cloud metaphor is credited to General Magic communications employee David Hoffman, based on long-standing use in networking and telecom. In addition to use by General Magic itself, it was also used in promoting AT&T's associated PersonaLink Services.[22]In August 2006, Amazon created subsidiary Amazon Web Services and introduced its Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2).[12]In April 2008, Google released the beta version of Google App Engine.[23]In early 2008, NASA's OpenNebula, enhanced in the RESERVOIR European Commission-funded project, became the first open-source software for deploying private and hybrid clouds, and for the federation of clouds.[24]By mid-2008, Gartner saw an opportunity for cloud computing "to shape the relationship among consumers of IT services, those who use IT services and those who sell them"[25] and observed that "organizations are switching from company-owned hardware and software assets to per-use service-based models" so that the "projected shift to computing ... will result in dramatic growth in IT products in some areas and significant reductions in other areas."[26]In 2008, the U.S. National Science Foundation began the Cluster Exploratory program to fund academic research using Google-IBM cluster technology to analyze massive amounts of data,[27]In February 2010, Microsoft released Microsoft Azure, which was announced in October 2008.[28]In July 2010, Rackspace Hosting and NASA jointly launched an open-source cloud-software initiative known as OpenStack. The OpenStack project intended to help organizations offering cloud-computing services running on standard hardware. The early code came from NASA's Nebula platform as well as from Rackspace's Cloud Files platform. As an open source offering and along with other open-source solutions such as CloudStack, Ganeti and OpenNebula, it has attracted attention by several key communities. Several studies aim at comparing these open sources offerings based on a set of criteria.[29][30][31][32][33][34][35]On March 1, 2011, IBM announced the IBM SmartCloud framework to support Smarter Planet.[36] Among the various components of the Smarter Computing foundation, cloud computing is a critical part. On June 7, 2012, Oracle announced the Oracle Cloud.[37] This cloud offering is poised to be the first to provide users with access to an integrated set of IT solutions, including the Applications (SaaS), Platform (PaaS), and Infrastructure (IaaS) layers.[38][39][40]In May 2012, Google Compute Engine was released in preview, before being rolled out into General Availability in December 2013.[41]In 2019, it was revealed that Linux is most used on Microsoft Azure.[10]The goal of cloud computing is to allow users to take benefit from all of these technologies, without the need for deep knowledge about or expertise with each one of them. The cloud aims to cut costs, and helps the users focus on their core business instead of being impeded by IT obstacles.[42] The main enabling technology for cloud computing is virtualization. Virtualization software separates a physical computing device into one or more "virtual" devices, each of which can be easily used and managed to perform computing tasks. With operating system–level virtualization essentially creating a scalable system of multiple independent computing devices, idle computing resources can be allocated and used more efficiently. Virtualization provides the agility required to speed up IT operations, and reduces cost by increasing infrastructure utilization. Autonomic computing automates the process through which the user can provision resources on-demand. By minimizing user involvement, automation speeds up the process, reduces labor costs and reduces the possibility of human errors.[42]Cloud computing uses concepts from utility computing to provide metrics for the services used. Cloud computing attempts to address QoS (quality of service) and reliability problems of other grid computing models.[42]Cloud computing shares characteristics with:Cloud computing exhibits the following key characteristics:The National Institute of Standards and Technology's definition of cloud computing identifies "five essential characteristics":On-demand self-service. A consumer can unilaterally provision computing capabilities, such as server time and network storage, as needed automatically without requiring human interaction with each service provider.Broad network access. Capabilities are available over the network and accessed through standard mechanisms that promote use by heterogeneous thin or thick client platforms (e.g., mobile phones, tablets, laptops, and workstations).Resource pooling. The provider's computing resources are pooled to serve multiple consumers using a multi-tenant model, with different physical and virtual resources dynamically assigned and reassigned according to consumer demand.Rapid elasticity. Capabilities can be elastically provisioned and released, in some cases automatically, to scale rapidly outward and inward commensurate with demand. To the consumer, the capabilities available for provisioning often appear unlimited and can be appropriated in any quantity at any time.Measured service. Cloud systems automatically control and optimize resource use by leveraging a metering capability at some level of abstraction appropriate to the type of service (e.g., storage, processing, bandwidth, and active user accounts). Resource usage can be monitored, controlled, and reported, providing transparency for both the provider and consumer of the utilized service.Though service-oriented architecture advocates "Everything as a service" (with the acronyms EaaS or XaaS,[64] or simply aas), cloud-computing providers offer their "services" according to different models, of which the three standard models per NIST are Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS), and Software as a Service (SaaS).[63] These models offer increasing abstraction; they are thus often portrayed as a layers in a stack: infrastructure-, platform- and software-as-a-service, but these need not be related. For example, one can provide SaaS implemented on physical machines (bare metal), without using underlying PaaS or IaaS layers, and conversely one can run a program on IaaS and access it directly, without wrapping it as SaaS."Infrastructure as a service" (IaaS) refers to online services that provide high-level APIs used to dereference various low-level details of underlying network infrastructure like physical computing resources, location, data partitioning, scaling, security, backup etc. A hypervisor runs the virtual machines as guests. Pools of hypervisors within the cloud operational system can support large numbers of virtual machines and the ability to scale services up and down according to customers' varying requirements. Linux containers run in isolated partitions of a single Linux kernel running directly on the physical hardware. Linux cgroups and namespaces are the underlying Linux kernel technologies used to isolate, secure and manage the containers. Containerisation offers higher performance than virtualization, because there is no hypervisor overhead. Also, container capacity auto-scales dynamically with computing load, which eliminates the problem of over-provisioning and enables usage-based billing.[65] IaaS clouds often offer additional resources such as a virtual-machine disk-image library, raw block storage, file or object storage, firewalls, load balancers, IP addresses, virtual local area networks (VLANs), and software bundles.[66]The NIST's definition of cloud computing describes IaaS as "where the consumer is able to deploy and run arbitrary software, which can include operating systems and applications. The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure but has control over operating systems, storage, and deployed applications; and possibly limited control of select networking components (e.g., host firewalls)."[63]IaaS-cloud providers supply these resources on-demand from their large pools of equipment installed in data centers. For wide-area connectivity, customers can use either the Internet or carrier clouds (dedicated virtual private networks). To deploy their applications, cloud users install operating-system images and their application software on the cloud infrastructure. In this model, the cloud user patches and maintains the operating systems and the application software. Cloud providers typically bill IaaS services on a utility computing basis: cost reflects the amount of resources allocated and consumed.[citation needed]The NIST's definition of cloud computing defines Platform as a Service as:[63]The capability provided to the consumer is to deploy onto the cloud infrastructure consumer-created or acquired applications created using programming languages, libraries, services, and tools supported by the provider. The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure including network, servers, operating systems, or storage, but has control over the deployed applications and possibly configuration settings for the application-hosting environment.PaaS vendors offer a development environment to application developers. The provider typically develops toolkit and standards for development and channels for distribution and payment. In the PaaS models, cloud providers deliver a computing platform, typically including operating system, programming-language execution environment, database, and web server. Application developers develop and run their software on a cloud platform instead of directly buying and managing the underlying hardware and software layers. With some PaaS, the underlying computer and storage resources scale automatically to match application demand so that the cloud user does not have to allocate resources manually.[67][need quotation to verify]Some integration and data management providers also use specialized applications of PaaS as delivery models for data. Examples include iPaaS (Integration Platform as a Service) and dPaaS (Data Platform as a Service). iPaaS enables customers to develop, execute and govern integration flows.[68] Under the iPaaS integration model, customers drive the development and deployment of integrations without installing or managing any hardware or middleware.[69] dPaaS delivers integration—and data-management—products as a fully managed service.[70] Under the dPaaS model, the PaaS provider, not the customer, manages the development and execution of programs by building data applications for the customer. dPaaS users access data through data-visualization tools.[71] Platform as a Service (PaaS) consumers do not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure including network, servers, operating systems, or storage, but have control over the deployed applications and possibly configuration settings for the application-hosting environment.The NIST's definition of cloud computing defines Software as a Service as:[63]The capability provided to the consumer is to use the provider's applications running on a cloud infrastructure. The applications are accessible from various client devices through either a thin client interface, such as a web browser (e.g., web-based email), or a program interface. The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure including network, servers, operating systems, storage, or even individual application capabilities, with the possible exception of limited user-specific application configuration settings.In the software as a service (SaaS) model, users gain access to application software and databases. Cloud providers manage the infrastructure and platforms that run the applications. SaaS is sometimes referred to as "on-demand software" and is usually priced on a pay-per-use basis or using a subscription fee.[72] In the SaaS model, cloud providers install and operate application software in the cloud and cloud users access the software from cloud clients. Cloud users do not manage the cloud infrastructure and platform where the application runs. This eliminates the need to install and run the application on the cloud user's own computers, which simplifies maintenance and support. Cloud applications differ from other applications in their scalability—which can be achieved by cloning tasks onto multiple virtual machines at run-time to meet changing work demand.[73] Load balancers distribute the work over the set of virtual machines. This process is transparent to the cloud user, who sees only a single access-point. To accommodate a large number of cloud users, cloud applications can be multitenant, meaning that any machine may serve more than one cloud-user organization.The pricing model for SaaS applications is typically a monthly or yearly flat fee per user,[74] so prices become scalable and adjustable if users are added or removed at any point. It may also be free.[75] Proponents claim that SaaS gives a business the potential to reduce IT operational costs by outsourcing hardware and software maintenance and support to the cloud provider. This enables the business to reallocate IT operations costs away from hardware/software spending and from personnel expenses, towards meeting other goals. In addition, with applications hosted centrally, updates can be released without the need for users to install new software. One drawback of SaaS comes with storing the users' data on the cloud provider's server. As a result,[citation needed] there could be unauthorized access to the data.[citation needed] Examples of applications offered as SaaS are games and productivity software like Google Docs and Word Online. SaaS applications may be integrated with cloud storage or File hosting services, which is the case with Google Docs being integrated with Google Drive and Word Online being integrated with Onedrive.In the mobile "backend" as a service (m) model, also known as backend as a service (BaaS), web app and mobile app developers are provided with a way to link their applications to cloud storage and cloud computing services with application programming interfaces (APIs) exposed to their applications and custom software development kits (SDKs). Services include user management, push notifications, integration with social networking services[76] and more. This is a relatively recent model in cloud computing,[77] with most BaaS startups dating from 2011 or later[78][79][80] but trends indicate that these services are gaining significant mainstream traction with enterprise consumers.[81]Serverless computing is a cloud computing code execution model in which the cloud provider fully manages starting and stopping virtual machines as necessary to serve requests, and requests are billed by an abstract measure of the resources required to satisfy the request, rather than per virtual machine, per hour.[82] Despite the name, it does not actually involve running code without servers.[82] Serverless computing is so named because the business or person that owns the system does not have to purchase, rent or provision servers or virtual machines for the back-end code to run on.Function as a service (FaaS) is a service-hosted remote procedure call that leverages serverless computing to enable the deployment of individual functions in the cloud that run in response to events.[83] FaaS is included under the broader term serverless computing, but the terms may also be used interchangeably.[84]Private cloud is cloud infrastructure operated solely for a single organization, whether managed internally or by a third party, and hosted either internally or externally.[63] Undertaking a private cloud project requires significant engagement to virtualize the business environment, and requires the organization to reevaluate decisions about existing resources. It can improve business, but every step in the project raises security issues that must be addressed to prevent serious vulnerabilities. Self-run data centers[85] are generally capital intensive. They have a significant physical footprint, requiring allocations of space, hardware, and environmental controls. These assets have to be refreshed periodically, resulting in additional capital expenditures. They have attracted criticism because users "still have to buy, build, and manage them" and thus do not benefit from less hands-on management,[86] essentially "[lacking] the economic model that makes cloud computing such an intriguing concept".[87][88]A cloud is called a "public cloud" when the services are rendered over a network that is open for public use. Public cloud services may be free.[89] Technically there may be little or no difference between public and private cloud architecture, however, security consideration may be substantially different for services (applications, storage, and other resources) that are made available by a service provider for a public audience and when communication is effected over a non-trusted network. Generally, public cloud service providers like Amazon Web Services (AWS), IBM, Oracle, Microsoft, Google, and Alibaba own and operate the infrastructure at their data center and access is generally via the Internet. AWS, Oracle, Microsoft, and Google also offer direct connect services called "AWS Direct Connect", "Oracle FastConnect", "Azure ExpressRoute", and "Cloud Interconnect" respectively, such connections require customers to purchase or lease a private connection to a peering point offered by the cloud provider.[47][90]Hybrid cloud is a composition of a public cloud and a private environment, such as a private cloud or on-premise resources,[91][92][93] that remain distinct entities but are bound together, offering the benefits of multiple deployment models. Hybrid cloud can also mean the ability to connect collocation, managed and/or dedicated services with cloud resources.[63] Gartner defines a hybrid cloud service as a cloud computing service that is composed of some combination of private, public and community cloud services, from different service providers.[94] A hybrid cloud service crosses isolation and provider boundaries so that it can't be simply put in one category of private, public, or community cloud service. It allows one to extend either the capacity or the capability of a cloud service, by aggregation, integration or customization with another cloud service.Varied use cases for hybrid cloud composition exist. For example, an organization may store sensitive client data in house on a private cloud application, but interconnect that application to a business intelligence application provided on a public cloud as a software service.[95] This example of hybrid cloud extends the capabilities of the enterprise to deliver a specific business service through the addition of externally available public cloud services. Hybrid cloud adoption depends on a number of factors such as data security and compliance requirements, level of control needed over data, and the applications an organization uses.[96]Another example of hybrid cloud is one where IT organizations use public cloud computing resources to meet temporary capacity needs that can not be met by the private cloud.[97] This capability enables hybrid clouds to employ cloud bursting for scaling across clouds.[63] Cloud bursting is an application deployment model in which an application runs in a private cloud or data center and "bursts" to a public cloud when the demand for computing capacity increases. A primary advantage of cloud bursting and a hybrid cloud model is that an organization pays for extra compute resources only when they are needed.[98] Cloud bursting enables data centers to create an in-house IT infrastructure that supports average workloads, and use cloud resources from public or private clouds, during spikes in processing demands.[99] The specialized model of hybrid cloud, which is built atop heterogeneous hardware, is called "Cross-platform Hybrid Cloud". A cross-platform hybrid cloud is usually powered by different CPU architectures, for example, x86-64 and ARM, underneath. Users can transparently deploy and scale applications without knowledge of the cloud's hardware diversity.[100] This kind of cloud emerges from the rise of ARM-based system-on-chip for server-class computing.Hybrid cloud infrastructure essentially serves to eliminate limitations inherent to the multi-access relay characteristics of private cloud networking. The advantages include enhanced runtime flexibility and adaptive memory processing unique to virtualized interface models.[101]Community cloud shares infrastructure between several organizations from a specific community with common concerns (security, compliance, jurisdiction, etc.), whether managed internally or by a third-party, and either hosted internally or externally. The costs are spread over fewer users than a public cloud (but more than a private cloud), so only some of the cost savings potential of cloud computing are realized.[63]A cloud computing platform can be assembled from a distributed set of machines in different locations, connected to a single network or hub service. It is possible to distinguish between two types of distributed clouds: public-resource computing and volunteer cloud.Multicloud is the use of multiple cloud computing services in a single heterogeneous architecture to reduce reliance on single vendors, increase flexibility through choice, mitigate against disasters, etc. It differs from hybrid cloud in that it refers to multiple cloud services, rather than multiple deployment modes (public, private, legacy).[103][104][105]Poly cloud refers to the use of multiple public clouds for the purpose of leveraging specific services that each provider offers. It differs from multicloud in that it is not designed to increase flexibility or mitigate against failures but is rather used to allow an organisation to achieve more that could be done with a single provider.[106]The issues of transferring large amounts of data to the cloud as well as data security once the data is in the cloud initially hampered adoption of cloud for big data, but now that much data originates in the cloud and with the advent of bare-metal servers, the cloud has become[107] a solution for use cases including business analytics and geospatial analysis.[108]HPC cloud refers to the use of cloud computing services and infrastructure to execute high-performance computing (HPC) applications.[109] These applications consume considerable amount of computing power and memory and are traditionally executed on clusters of computers. In 2016 a handful of companies, including R-HPC, Amazon Web Services, Univa, Silicon Graphics International, Sabalcore, Gomput, and Penguin Computing offered a high performance computing cloud. The Penguin On Demand (POD) cloud was one of the first non-virtualized remote HPC services offered on a pay-as-you-go basis.[110][111] Penguin Computing launched its HPC cloud in 2016 as alternative to Amazon's EC2 Elastic Compute Cloud, which uses virtualized computing nodes.[112][113]Cloud architecture,[114] the systems architecture of the software systems involved in the delivery of cloud computing, typically involves multiple cloud components communicating with each other over a loose coupling mechanism such as a messaging queue. Elastic provision implies intelligence in the use of tight or loose coupling as applied to mechanisms such as these and others.Cloud engineering is the application of engineering disciplines to cloud computing. It brings a systematic approach to the high-level concerns of commercialization, standardization, and governance in conceiving, developing, operating and maintaining cloud computing systems. It is a multidisciplinary method encompassing contributions from diverse areas such as systems, software, web, performance, information technology engineering, security, platform, risk, and quality engineering.Cloud computing poses privacy concerns because the service provider can access the data that is in the cloud at any time.  It could accidentally or deliberately alter or delete information.[115] Many cloud providers can share information with third parties if necessary for purposes of law and order without a warrant. That is permitted in their privacy policies, which users must agree to before they start using cloud services. Solutions to privacy include policy and legislation as well as end users' choices for how data is stored.[115] Users can encrypt data that is processed or stored within the cloud to prevent unauthorized access.[116][115] Identity management systems can also provide practical solutions to privacy concerns in cloud computing. These systems distinguish between authorized and unauthorized users and determine the amount of data that is accessible to each entity.[citation needed] The systems work by creating and describing identities, recording activities, and getting rid of unused identities.According to the Cloud Security Alliance, the top three threats in the cloud are Insecure Interfaces and API's, Data Loss & Leakage, and Hardware Failure—which accounted for 29%, 25% and 10% of all cloud security outages respectively. Together, these form shared technology vulnerabilities. In a cloud provider platform being shared by different users there may be a possibility that information belonging to different customers resides on the same data server. Additionally, Eugene Schultz, chief technology officer at Emagined Security, said that hackers are spending substantial time and effort looking for ways to penetrate the cloud. "There are some real Achilles' heels in the cloud infrastructure that are making big holes for the bad guys to get into". Because data from hundreds or thousands of companies can be stored on large cloud servers, hackers can theoretically gain control of huge stores of information through a single attack—a process he called "hyperjacking". Some examples of this include the Dropbox security breach, and iCloud 2014 leak.[117] Dropbox had been breached in October 2014, having over 7 million of its users passwords stolen by hackers in an effort to get monetary value from it by Bitcoins (BTC). By having these passwords, they are able to read private data as well as have this data be indexed by search engines (making the information public).[117]There is the problem of legal ownership of the data (If a user stores some data in the cloud, can the cloud provider profit from it?). Many Terms of Service agreements are silent on the question of ownership.[118] Physical control of the computer equipment (private cloud) is more secure than having the equipment off site and under someone else's control (public cloud). This delivers great incentive to public cloud computing service providers to prioritize building and maintaining strong management of secure services.[119] Some small businesses that don't have expertise in IT security could find that it's more secure for them to use a public cloud. There is the risk that end users do not understand the issues involved when signing on to a cloud service (persons sometimes don't read the many pages of the terms of service agreement, and just click "Accept" without reading). This is important now that cloud computing is becoming popular and required for some services to work, for example for an intelligent personal assistant (Apple's Siri or Google Now). Fundamentally, private cloud is seen as more secure with higher levels of control for the owner, however public cloud is seen to be more flexible and requires less time and money investment from the user.[120]According to Bruce Schneier, "The downside is that you will have limited customization options. Cloud computing is cheaper because of economics of scale, and—like any outsourced task—you tend to get what you want. A restaurant with a limited menu is cheaper than a personal chef who can cook anything you want. Fewer options at a much cheaper price: it's a feature, not a bug." He also suggests that "the cloud provider might not meet your legal needs" and that businesses need to weigh the benefits of cloud computing against the risks.[121]
In cloud computing, the control of the back end infrastructure is limited to the cloud vendor only. Cloud providers often decide on the management policies, which moderates what the cloud users are able to do with their deployment.[122] Cloud users are also limited to the control and management of their applications, data and services.[123] This includes data caps, which are placed on cloud users by the cloud vendor allocating certain amount of bandwidth for each customer and are often shared among other cloud users.[123]Privacy and confidentiality are big concerns in some activities. For instance, sworn translators working under the stipulations of an NDA, might face problems regarding sensitive data that are not encrypted.[124]Cloud computing is beneficial to many enterprises; it lowers costs and allows them to focus on competence instead of on matters of IT and infrastructure. Nevertheless, cloud computing has proven to have some limitations and disadvantages, especially for smaller business operations, particularly regarding security and downtime. Technical outages are inevitable and occur sometimes when cloud service providers (CSPs) become overwhelmed in the process of serving their clients. This may result to temporary business suspension. Since this technology's systems rely on the internet, an individual cannot be able to access their applications, server or data from the cloud during an outage.Cloud computing is still a subject of research.[125] A driving factor in the evolution of cloud computing has been chief technology officers seeking to minimize risk of internal outages and mitigate the complexity of housing network and computing hardware in-house.[126] Major cloud technology companies invest billions of dollars per year in cloud Research and Development. For example, in 2011 Microsoft committed 90 percent of its $9.6 billion R&D budget to its cloud.[127] Research by investment bank Centaur Partners in late 2015 forecasted that SaaS revenue would grow from $13.5 billion in 2011 to $32.8 billion in 2016.[128]The issue of carrying out investigations where the cloud storage devices cannot be physically accessed has generated a number of changes to the way that digital evidence is located and collected.[129] New process models have been developed to formalize collection.[130]In some scenarios existing digital forensics tools can be employed to access cloud storage as networked drives (although this is a slow process generating a large amount of internet traffic).[citation needed]An alternative approach is to deploy a tool that processes in the cloud itself.[131]For organizations using Office 365 with an 'E5' subscription there is the option to use Microsoft's built-in ediscovery resources, although these do not provide all the functionality that is typically required for a forensic process.[132]Cloud computing is the on-demand availability of computer system resources, especially data storage and computing power, without direct active management by the user. The term is generally used to describe data centers available to many users over the Internet. Large clouds, predominant today, often have functions distributed over multiple locations from central servers. If the connection to the user is relatively close, it may be designated an edge server.Clouds may be limited to a single organization (enterprise clouds[1][2]), or be available to many organizations (public cloud).Cloud computing relies on sharing of resources to achieve coherence and economies of scale.Advocates of public and hybrid clouds note that cloud computing allows companies to avoid or minimize up-front IT infrastructure costs. Proponents also claim that cloud computing allows enterprises to get their applications up and running faster, with improved manageability and less maintenance, and that it enables IT teams to more rapidly adjust resources to meet fluctuating and unpredictable demand,[2][3][4] providing the burst computing capability: high computing power at certain periods of peak demand.[5]Cloud providers typically use a "pay-as-you-go" model, which can lead to unexpected operating expenses if administrators are not familiarized with cloud-pricing models.[6]The availability of high-capacity networks, low-cost computers and storage devices as well as the widespread adoption of hardware virtualization, service-oriented architecture and autonomic and utility computing has led to growth in cloud computing.[7][8][9] By 2019, Linux was the most widely used operating system, including in Microsoft's offerings and is thus described as dominant.[10] The Cloud Service Provider (CSP) will screen, keep up and gather data about the firewalls, intrusion identification or/and counteractive action frameworks and information stream inside the network.[11]Cloud computing was popularized with Amazon.com releasing its Elastic Compute Cloud product in 2006.[12]References to the phrase "cloud computing" appeared as early as 1996, with the first known mention in a Compaq internal document.[13]The cloud symbol was used to represent networks of computing equipment in the original ARPANET by as early as 1977,[14] and the CSNET by 1981[15]—both predecessors to the Internet itself. The word cloud was used as a metaphor for the Internet and a standardized cloud-like shape was used to denote a network on telephony schematics. With this simplification, the implication is that the specifics of how the end points of a network are connected are not relevant for the purposes of understanding the diagram.[citation needed]The term cloud was used to refer to platforms for distributed computing as early as 1993, when Apple spin-off General Magic and AT&T used it in describing their (paired) Telescript and PersonaLink technologies.[16]  In Wired's April 1994 feature "Bill and Andy's Excellent Adventure II", Andy Hertzfeld commented on Telescript, General Magic's distributed programming language:"The beauty of Telescript ... is that now, instead of just having a device to program, we now have the entire Cloud out there, where a single program can go and travel to many different sources of information and create sort of a virtual service. No one had conceived that before. The example Jim White [the designer of Telescript, X.400 and ASN.1] uses now is a date-arranging service where a software agent goes to the flower store and orders flowers and then goes to the ticket shop and gets the tickets for the show, and everything is communicated to both parties."[17]During the 1960s, the initial concepts of time-sharing became popularized via RJE (Remote Job Entry);[18] this terminology was mostly associated with large vendors such as IBM and DEC.  Full-time-sharing solutions were available by the early 1970s on such platforms as Multics (on GE hardware), Cambridge CTSS, and the earliest UNIX ports (on DEC hardware). Yet, the "data center" model where users submitted jobs to operators to run on IBM mainframes was overwhelmingly predominant.In the 1990s, telecommunications companies, who previously offered primarily dedicated point-to-point data circuits, began offering virtual private network (VPN) services with comparable quality of service, but at a lower cost. By switching traffic as they saw fit to balance server use, they could use overall network bandwidth more effectively.[citation needed]  They began to use the cloud symbol to denote the demarcation point between what the provider was responsible for and what users were responsible for. Cloud computing extended this boundary to cover all servers as well as the network infrastructure.[19] As computers became more diffused, scientists and technologists explored ways to make large-scale computing power available to more users through time-sharing.[citation needed] They experimented with algorithms to optimise the infrastructure, platform, and applications to prioritize CPUs and increase efficiency for end users.[20]The use of the cloud metaphor for virtualized services dates at least to General Magic in 1994, where it was used to describe the universe of "places" that mobile agents in the Telescript environment could go. As described by 
Andy Hertzfeld:"The beauty of Telescript," says Andy, "is that now, instead of just having a device to program, we now have the entire Cloud out there, where a single program can go and travel to many different sources of information and create sort of a virtual service."[21]The use of the cloud metaphor is credited to General Magic communications employee David Hoffman, based on long-standing use in networking and telecom. In addition to use by General Magic itself, it was also used in promoting AT&T's associated PersonaLink Services.[22]In August 2006, Amazon created subsidiary Amazon Web Services and introduced its Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2).[12]In April 2008, Google released the beta version of Google App Engine.[23]In early 2008, NASA's OpenNebula, enhanced in the RESERVOIR European Commission-funded project, became the first open-source software for deploying private and hybrid clouds, and for the federation of clouds.[24]By mid-2008, Gartner saw an opportunity for cloud computing "to shape the relationship among consumers of IT services, those who use IT services and those who sell them"[25] and observed that "organizations are switching from company-owned hardware and software assets to per-use service-based models" so that the "projected shift to computing ... will result in dramatic growth in IT products in some areas and significant reductions in other areas."[26]In 2008, the U.S. National Science Foundation began the Cluster Exploratory program to fund academic research using Google-IBM cluster technology to analyze massive amounts of data,[27]In February 2010, Microsoft released Microsoft Azure, which was announced in October 2008.[28]In July 2010, Rackspace Hosting and NASA jointly launched an open-source cloud-software initiative known as OpenStack. The OpenStack project intended to help organizations offering cloud-computing services running on standard hardware. The early code came from NASA's Nebula platform as well as from Rackspace's Cloud Files platform. As an open source offering and along with other open-source solutions such as CloudStack, Ganeti and OpenNebula, it has attracted attention by several key communities. Several studies aim at comparing these open sources offerings based on a set of criteria.[29][30][31][32][33][34][35]On March 1, 2011, IBM announced the IBM SmartCloud framework to support Smarter Planet.[36] Among the various components of the Smarter Computing foundation, cloud computing is a critical part. On June 7, 2012, Oracle announced the Oracle Cloud.[37] This cloud offering is poised to be the first to provide users with access to an integrated set of IT solutions, including the Applications (SaaS), Platform (PaaS), and Infrastructure (IaaS) layers.[38][39][40]In May 2012, Google Compute Engine was released in preview, before being rolled out into General Availability in December 2013.[41]In 2019, it was revealed that Linux is most used on Microsoft Azure.[10]The goal of cloud computing is to allow users to take benefit from all of these technologies, without the need for deep knowledge about or expertise with each one of them. The cloud aims to cut costs, and helps the users focus on their core business instead of being impeded by IT obstacles.[42] The main enabling technology for cloud computing is virtualization. Virtualization software separates a physical computing device into one or more "virtual" devices, each of which can be easily used and managed to perform computing tasks. With operating system–level virtualization essentially creating a scalable system of multiple independent computing devices, idle computing resources can be allocated and used more efficiently. Virtualization provides the agility required to speed up IT operations, and reduces cost by increasing infrastructure utilization. Autonomic computing automates the process through which the user can provision resources on-demand. By minimizing user involvement, automation speeds up the process, reduces labor costs and reduces the possibility of human errors.[42]Cloud computing uses concepts from utility computing to provide metrics for the services used. Cloud computing attempts to address QoS (quality of service) and reliability problems of other grid computing models.[42]Cloud computing shares characteristics with:Cloud computing exhibits the following key characteristics:The National Institute of Standards and Technology's definition of cloud computing identifies "five essential characteristics":On-demand self-service. A consumer can unilaterally provision computing capabilities, such as server time and network storage, as needed automatically without requiring human interaction with each service provider.Broad network access. Capabilities are available over the network and accessed through standard mechanisms that promote use by heterogeneous thin or thick client platforms (e.g., mobile phones, tablets, laptops, and workstations).Resource pooling. The provider's computing resources are pooled to serve multiple consumers using a multi-tenant model, with different physical and virtual resources dynamically assigned and reassigned according to consumer demand.Rapid elasticity. Capabilities can be elastically provisioned and released, in some cases automatically, to scale rapidly outward and inward commensurate with demand. To the consumer, the capabilities available for provisioning often appear unlimited and can be appropriated in any quantity at any time.Measured service. Cloud systems automatically control and optimize resource use by leveraging a metering capability at some level of abstraction appropriate to the type of service (e.g., storage, processing, bandwidth, and active user accounts). Resource usage can be monitored, controlled, and reported, providing transparency for both the provider and consumer of the utilized service.Though service-oriented architecture advocates "Everything as a service" (with the acronyms EaaS or XaaS,[64] or simply aas), cloud-computing providers offer their "services" according to different models, of which the three standard models per NIST are Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS), and Software as a Service (SaaS).[63] These models offer increasing abstraction; they are thus often portrayed as a layers in a stack: infrastructure-, platform- and software-as-a-service, but these need not be related. For example, one can provide SaaS implemented on physical machines (bare metal), without using underlying PaaS or IaaS layers, and conversely one can run a program on IaaS and access it directly, without wrapping it as SaaS."Infrastructure as a service" (IaaS) refers to online services that provide high-level APIs used to dereference various low-level details of underlying network infrastructure like physical computing resources, location, data partitioning, scaling, security, backup etc. A hypervisor runs the virtual machines as guests. Pools of hypervisors within the cloud operational system can support large numbers of virtual machines and the ability to scale services up and down according to customers' varying requirements. Linux containers run in isolated partitions of a single Linux kernel running directly on the physical hardware. Linux cgroups and namespaces are the underlying Linux kernel technologies used to isolate, secure and manage the containers. Containerisation offers higher performance than virtualization, because there is no hypervisor overhead. Also, container capacity auto-scales dynamically with computing load, which eliminates the problem of over-provisioning and enables usage-based billing.[65] IaaS clouds often offer additional resources such as a virtual-machine disk-image library, raw block storage, file or object storage, firewalls, load balancers, IP addresses, virtual local area networks (VLANs), and software bundles.[66]The NIST's definition of cloud computing describes IaaS as "where the consumer is able to deploy and run arbitrary software, which can include operating systems and applications. The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure but has control over operating systems, storage, and deployed applications; and possibly limited control of select networking components (e.g., host firewalls)."[63]IaaS-cloud providers supply these resources on-demand from their large pools of equipment installed in data centers. For wide-area connectivity, customers can use either the Internet or carrier clouds (dedicated virtual private networks). To deploy their applications, cloud users install operating-system images and their application software on the cloud infrastructure. In this model, the cloud user patches and maintains the operating systems and the application software. Cloud providers typically bill IaaS services on a utility computing basis: cost reflects the amount of resources allocated and consumed.[citation needed]The NIST's definition of cloud computing defines Platform as a Service as:[63]The capability provided to the consumer is to deploy onto the cloud infrastructure consumer-created or acquired applications created using programming languages, libraries, services, and tools supported by the provider. The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure including network, servers, operating systems, or storage, but has control over the deployed applications and possibly configuration settings for the application-hosting environment.PaaS vendors offer a development environment to application developers. The provider typically develops toolkit and standards for development and channels for distribution and payment. In the PaaS models, cloud providers deliver a computing platform, typically including operating system, programming-language execution environment, database, and web server. Application developers develop and run their software on a cloud platform instead of directly buying and managing the underlying hardware and software layers. With some PaaS, the underlying computer and storage resources scale automatically to match application demand so that the cloud user does not have to allocate resources manually.[67][need quotation to verify]Some integration and data management providers also use specialized applications of PaaS as delivery models for data. Examples include iPaaS (Integration Platform as a Service) and dPaaS (Data Platform as a Service). iPaaS enables customers to develop, execute and govern integration flows.[68] Under the iPaaS integration model, customers drive the development and deployment of integrations without installing or managing any hardware or middleware.[69] dPaaS delivers integration—and data-management—products as a fully managed service.[70] Under the dPaaS model, the PaaS provider, not the customer, manages the development and execution of programs by building data applications for the customer. dPaaS users access data through data-visualization tools.[71] Platform as a Service (PaaS) consumers do not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure including network, servers, operating systems, or storage, but have control over the deployed applications and possibly configuration settings for the application-hosting environment.The NIST's definition of cloud computing defines Software as a Service as:[63]The capability provided to the consumer is to use the provider's applications running on a cloud infrastructure. The applications are accessible from various client devices through either a thin client interface, such as a web browser (e.g., web-based email), or a program interface. The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure including network, servers, operating systems, storage, or even individual application capabilities, with the possible exception of limited user-specific application configuration settings.In the software as a service (SaaS) model, users gain access to application software and databases. Cloud providers manage the infrastructure and platforms that run the applications. SaaS is sometimes referred to as "on-demand software" and is usually priced on a pay-per-use basis or using a subscription fee.[72] In the SaaS model, cloud providers install and operate application software in the cloud and cloud users access the software from cloud clients. Cloud users do not manage the cloud infrastructure and platform where the application runs. This eliminates the need to install and run the application on the cloud user's own computers, which simplifies maintenance and support. Cloud applications differ from other applications in their scalability—which can be achieved by cloning tasks onto multiple virtual machines at run-time to meet changing work demand.[73] Load balancers distribute the work over the set of virtual machines. This process is transparent to the cloud user, who sees only a single access-point. To accommodate a large number of cloud users, cloud applications can be multitenant, meaning that any machine may serve more than one cloud-user organization.The pricing model for SaaS applications is typically a monthly or yearly flat fee per user,[74] so prices become scalable and adjustable if users are added or removed at any point. It may also be free.[75] Proponents claim that SaaS gives a business the potential to reduce IT operational costs by outsourcing hardware and software maintenance and support to the cloud provider. This enables the business to reallocate IT operations costs away from hardware/software spending and from personnel expenses, towards meeting other goals. In addition, with applications hosted centrally, updates can be released without the need for users to install new software. One drawback of SaaS comes with storing the users' data on the cloud provider's server. As a result,[citation needed] there could be unauthorized access to the data.[citation needed] Examples of applications offered as SaaS are games and productivity software like Google Docs and Word Online. SaaS applications may be integrated with cloud storage or File hosting services, which is the case with Google Docs being integrated with Google Drive and Word Online being integrated with Onedrive.In the mobile "backend" as a service (m) model, also known as backend as a service (BaaS), web app and mobile app developers are provided with a way to link their applications to cloud storage and cloud computing services with application programming interfaces (APIs) exposed to their applications and custom software development kits (SDKs). Services include user management, push notifications, integration with social networking services[76] and more. This is a relatively recent model in cloud computing,[77] with most BaaS startups dating from 2011 or later[78][79][80] but trends indicate that these services are gaining significant mainstream traction with enterprise consumers.[81]Serverless computing is a cloud computing code execution model in which the cloud provider fully manages starting and stopping virtual machines as necessary to serve requests, and requests are billed by an abstract measure of the resources required to satisfy the request, rather than per virtual machine, per hour.[82] Despite the name, it does not actually involve running code without servers.[82] Serverless computing is so named because the business or person that owns the system does not have to purchase, rent or provision servers or virtual machines for the back-end code to run on.Function as a service (FaaS) is a service-hosted remote procedure call that leverages serverless computing to enable the deployment of individual functions in the cloud that run in response to events.[83] FaaS is included under the broader term serverless computing, but the terms may also be used interchangeably.[84]Private cloud is cloud infrastructure operated solely for a single organization, whether managed internally or by a third party, and hosted either internally or externally.[63] Undertaking a private cloud project requires significant engagement to virtualize the business environment, and requires the organization to reevaluate decisions about existing resources. It can improve business, but every step in the project raises security issues that must be addressed to prevent serious vulnerabilities. Self-run data centers[85] are generally capital intensive. They have a significant physical footprint, requiring allocations of space, hardware, and environmental controls. These assets have to be refreshed periodically, resulting in additional capital expenditures. They have attracted criticism because users "still have to buy, build, and manage them" and thus do not benefit from less hands-on management,[86] essentially "[lacking] the economic model that makes cloud computing such an intriguing concept".[87][88]A cloud is called a "public cloud" when the services are rendered over a network that is open for public use. Public cloud services may be free.[89] Technically there may be little or no difference between public and private cloud architecture, however, security consideration may be substantially different for services (applications, storage, and other resources) that are made available by a service provider for a public audience and when communication is effected over a non-trusted network. Generally, public cloud service providers like Amazon Web Services (AWS), IBM, Oracle, Microsoft, Google, and Alibaba own and operate the infrastructure at their data center and access is generally via the Internet. AWS, Oracle, Microsoft, and Google also offer direct connect services called "AWS Direct Connect", "Oracle FastConnect", "Azure ExpressRoute", and "Cloud Interconnect" respectively, such connections require customers to purchase or lease a private connection to a peering point offered by the cloud provider.[47][90]Hybrid cloud is a composition of a public cloud and a private environment, such as a private cloud or on-premise resources,[91][92][93] that remain distinct entities but are bound together, offering the benefits of multiple deployment models. Hybrid cloud can also mean the ability to connect collocation, managed and/or dedicated services with cloud resources.[63] Gartner defines a hybrid cloud service as a cloud computing service that is composed of some combination of private, public and community cloud services, from different service providers.[94] A hybrid cloud service crosses isolation and provider boundaries so that it can't be simply put in one category of private, public, or community cloud service. It allows one to extend either the capacity or the capability of a cloud service, by aggregation, integration or customization with another cloud service.Varied use cases for hybrid cloud composition exist. For example, an organization may store sensitive client data in house on a private cloud application, but interconnect that application to a business intelligence application provided on a public cloud as a software service.[95] This example of hybrid cloud extends the capabilities of the enterprise to deliver a specific business service through the addition of externally available public cloud services. Hybrid cloud adoption depends on a number of factors such as data security and compliance requirements, level of control needed over data, and the applications an organization uses.[96]Another example of hybrid cloud is one where IT organizations use public cloud computing resources to meet temporary capacity needs that can not be met by the private cloud.[97] This capability enables hybrid clouds to employ cloud bursting for scaling across clouds.[63] Cloud bursting is an application deployment model in which an application runs in a private cloud or data center and "bursts" to a public cloud when the demand for computing capacity increases. A primary advantage of cloud bursting and a hybrid cloud model is that an organization pays for extra compute resources only when they are needed.[98] Cloud bursting enables data centers to create an in-house IT infrastructure that supports average workloads, and use cloud resources from public or private clouds, during spikes in processing demands.[99] The specialized model of hybrid cloud, which is built atop heterogeneous hardware, is called "Cross-platform Hybrid Cloud". A cross-platform hybrid cloud is usually powered by different CPU architectures, for example, x86-64 and ARM, underneath. Users can transparently deploy and scale applications without knowledge of the cloud's hardware diversity.[100] This kind of cloud emerges from the rise of ARM-based system-on-chip for server-class computing.Hybrid cloud infrastructure essentially serves to eliminate limitations inherent to the multi-access relay characteristics of private cloud networking. The advantages include enhanced runtime flexibility and adaptive memory processing unique to virtualized interface models.[101]Community cloud shares infrastructure between several organizations from a specific community with common concerns (security, compliance, jurisdiction, etc.), whether managed internally or by a third-party, and either hosted internally or externally. The costs are spread over fewer users than a public cloud (but more than a private cloud), so only some of the cost savings potential of cloud computing are realized.[63]A cloud computing platform can be assembled from a distributed set of machines in different locations, connected to a single network or hub service. It is possible to distinguish between two types of distributed clouds: public-resource computing and volunteer cloud.Multicloud is the use of multiple cloud computing services in a single heterogeneous architecture to reduce reliance on single vendors, increase flexibility through choice, mitigate against disasters, etc. It differs from hybrid cloud in that it refers to multiple cloud services, rather than multiple deployment modes (public, private, legacy).[103][104][105]Poly cloud refers to the use of multiple public clouds for the purpose of leveraging specific services that each provider offers. It differs from multicloud in that it is not designed to increase flexibility or mitigate against failures but is rather used to allow an organisation to achieve more that could be done with a single provider.[106]The issues of transferring large amounts of data to the cloud as well as data security once the data is in the cloud initially hampered adoption of cloud for big data, but now that much data originates in the cloud and with the advent of bare-metal servers, the cloud has become[107] a solution for use cases including business analytics and geospatial analysis.[108]HPC cloud refers to the use of cloud computing services and infrastructure to execute high-performance computing (HPC) applications.[109] These applications consume considerable amount of computing power and memory and are traditionally executed on clusters of computers. In 2016 a handful of companies, including R-HPC, Amazon Web Services, Univa, Silicon Graphics International, Sabalcore, Gomput, and Penguin Computing offered a high performance computing cloud. The Penguin On Demand (POD) cloud was one of the first non-virtualized remote HPC services offered on a pay-as-you-go basis.[110][111] Penguin Computing launched its HPC cloud in 2016 as alternative to Amazon's EC2 Elastic Compute Cloud, which uses virtualized computing nodes.[112][113]Cloud architecture,[114] the systems architecture of the software systems involved in the delivery of cloud computing, typically involves multiple cloud components communicating with each other over a loose coupling mechanism such as a messaging queue. Elastic provision implies intelligence in the use of tight or loose coupling as applied to mechanisms such as these and others.Cloud engineering is the application of engineering disciplines to cloud computing. It brings a systematic approach to the high-level concerns of commercialization, standardization, and governance in conceiving, developing, operating and maintaining cloud computing systems. It is a multidisciplinary method encompassing contributions from diverse areas such as systems, software, web, performance, information technology engineering, security, platform, risk, and quality engineering.Cloud computing poses privacy concerns because the service provider can access the data that is in the cloud at any time.  It could accidentally or deliberately alter or delete information.[115] Many cloud providers can share information with third parties if necessary for purposes of law and order without a warrant. That is permitted in their privacy policies, which users must agree to before they start using cloud services. Solutions to privacy include policy and legislation as well as end users' choices for how data is stored.[115] Users can encrypt data that is processed or stored within the cloud to prevent unauthorized access.[116][115] Identity management systems can also provide practical solutions to privacy concerns in cloud computing. These systems distinguish between authorized and unauthorized users and determine the amount of data that is accessible to each entity.[citation needed] The systems work by creating and describing identities, recording activities, and getting rid of unused identities.According to the Cloud Security Alliance, the top three threats in the cloud are Insecure Interfaces and API's, Data Loss & Leakage, and Hardware Failure—which accounted for 29%, 25% and 10% of all cloud security outages respectively. Together, these form shared technology vulnerabilities. In a cloud provider platform being shared by different users there may be a possibility that information belonging to different customers resides on the same data server. Additionally, Eugene Schultz, chief technology officer at Emagined Security, said that hackers are spending substantial time and effort looking for ways to penetrate the cloud. "There are some real Achilles' heels in the cloud infrastructure that are making big holes for the bad guys to get into". Because data from hundreds or thousands of companies can be stored on large cloud servers, hackers can theoretically gain control of huge stores of information through a single attack—a process he called "hyperjacking". Some examples of this include the Dropbox security breach, and iCloud 2014 leak.[117] Dropbox had been breached in October 2014, having over 7 million of its users passwords stolen by hackers in an effort to get monetary value from it by Bitcoins (BTC). By having these passwords, they are able to read private data as well as have this data be indexed by search engines (making the information public).[117]There is the problem of legal ownership of the data (If a user stores some data in the cloud, can the cloud provider profit from it?). Many Terms of Service agreements are silent on the question of ownership.[118] Physical control of the computer equipment (private cloud) is more secure than having the equipment off site and under someone else's control (public cloud). This delivers great incentive to public cloud computing service providers to prioritize building and maintaining strong management of secure services.[119] Some small businesses that don't have expertise in IT security could find that it's more secure for them to use a public cloud. There is the risk that end users do not understand the issues involved when signing on to a cloud service (persons sometimes don't read the many pages of the terms of service agreement, and just click "Accept" without reading). This is important now that cloud computing is becoming popular and required for some services to work, for example for an intelligent personal assistant (Apple's Siri or Google Now). Fundamentally, private cloud is seen as more secure with higher levels of control for the owner, however public cloud is seen to be more flexible and requires less time and money investment from the user.[120]According to Bruce Schneier, "The downside is that you will have limited customization options. Cloud computing is cheaper because of economics of scale, and—like any outsourced task—you tend to get what you want. A restaurant with a limited menu is cheaper than a personal chef who can cook anything you want. Fewer options at a much cheaper price: it's a feature, not a bug." He also suggests that "the cloud provider might not meet your legal needs" and that businesses need to weigh the benefits of cloud computing against the risks.[121]
In cloud computing, the control of the back end infrastructure is limited to the cloud vendor only. Cloud providers often decide on the management policies, which moderates what the cloud users are able to do with their deployment.[122] Cloud users are also limited to the control and management of their applications, data and services.[123] This includes data caps, which are placed on cloud users by the cloud vendor allocating certain amount of bandwidth for each customer and are often shared among other cloud users.[123]Privacy and confidentiality are big concerns in some activities. For instance, sworn translators working under the stipulations of an NDA, might face problems regarding sensitive data that are not encrypted.[124]Cloud computing is beneficial to many enterprises; it lowers costs and allows them to focus on competence instead of on matters of IT and infrastructure. Nevertheless, cloud computing has proven to have some limitations and disadvantages, especially for smaller business operations, particularly regarding security and downtime. Technical outages are inevitable and occur sometimes when cloud service providers (CSPs) become overwhelmed in the process of serving their clients. This may result to temporary business suspension. Since this technology's systems rely on the internet, an individual cannot be able to access their applications, server or data from the cloud during an outage.Cloud computing is still a subject of research.[125] A driving factor in the evolution of cloud computing has been chief technology officers seeking to minimize risk of internal outages and mitigate the complexity of housing network and computing hardware in-house.[126] Major cloud technology companies invest billions of dollars per year in cloud Research and Development. For example, in 2011 Microsoft committed 90 percent of its $9.6 billion R&D budget to its cloud.[127] Research by investment bank Centaur Partners in late 2015 forecasted that SaaS revenue would grow from $13.5 billion in 2011 to $32.8 billion in 2016.[128]The issue of carrying out investigations where the cloud storage devices cannot be physically accessed has generated a number of changes to the way that digital evidence is located and collected.[129] New process models have been developed to formalize collection.[130]In some scenarios existing digital forensics tools can be employed to access cloud storage as networked drives (although this is a slow process generating a large amount of internet traffic).[citation needed]An alternative approach is to deploy a tool that processes in the cloud itself.[131]For organizations using Office 365 with an 'E5' subscription there is the option to use Microsoft's built-in ediscovery resources, although these do not provide all the functionality that is typically required for a forensic process.[132]Mobile Cloud Computing (MCC) is the combination of cloud computing and mobile computing to bring rich computational resources to mobile users, network operators, as well as cloud computing providers.[1][2][3] The ultimate goal of MCC is to enable execution of rich mobile applications on a plethora of mobile devices, with a rich user experience.[4] MCC provides business opportunities for mobile network operators as well as cloud providers.[5][6] More comprehensively, MCC can be defined as "a rich mobile computing technology that leverages unified elastic resources of varied clouds and network technologies toward unrestricted functionality, storage, and mobility to serve a multitude of mobile devices anywhere, anytime through the channel of Ethernet or Internet regardless of heterogeneous environments and platforms based on the pay-as-you-use principle."[7]MCC uses computational augmentation approaches (computations are executed remotely instead of on the device) by which resource-constraint mobile devices can utilize computational resources of varied cloud-based resources.[2] In MCC, there are four types of cloud-based resources, namely distant immobile clouds, proximate immobile computing entities, proximate mobile computing entities, and hybrid (combination of the other three model).[2][5] Giant clouds such as Amazon EC2 are in the distant immobile groups whereas cloudlet or surrogates are member 9apps of proximate immobile computing entities. Smartphones, tablets, handheld devices, and wearable computing devices are part of the third group of cloud-based resources which is proximate mobile computing entities.[5][8]Vodafone,[9] Orange and Verizon have started to offer cloud computing services for companies.In the MCC landscape, an amalgam of mobile computing, cloud computing, and communication networks (to augment smartphones) creates several complex challenges such as Mobile Computation Offloading, Seamless Connectivity, Long WAN Latency, Mobility Management, Context-Processing, Energy Constraint, Vendor/data Lock-in, Security and Privacy,[10] Elasticity that hinder MCC success and adoption.[5][7]Although significant research and development in MCC is available in the literature, efforts in the following domains is still lacking:[3][7]Several academic and industrial research groups in MCC have been emerging since last few years. Some of the MCC research groups in academia with large number of researchers and publications include:De, Debashis. Mobile cloud computing: architectures, algorithms and applications. Chapman and Hall/CRC, 2016.
Mukherjee, Anwesha, Payel Gupta, and Debashis De. "Mobile cloud computing based energy efficient offloading strategies for femtocell network." 2014 Applications and Innovations in Mobile Computing (AIMoC). IEEE, 2014.Cloud computing mobail networkCloud Computing (foaled April 29, 2014) is an American Thoroughbred racehorse who won the 2017 Preakness Stakes in only his fourth start.Cloud Computing was bred in Kentucky by Hill 'n' Dale Equine Holdings and Stretch Run Ventures.[2] He is from the first foal crop sired by Maclean's Music, a son of Distorted Humor.[3] Maclean's Music was an impressive winner by ​7 1⁄2 lengths in his only start, a 2011 race for three-year-old maiden horses.[4] and based upon the performances of his first crop of foals, exceeded expectations as a sire.[5] Cloud Computing's dam is Quick Temper, a multiple stakes-placed daughter of A.P. Indy.[6]Cloud Computing was purchased as a yearling at the 2015 Keeneland Sales for $200,000[2] by Seth Klarman, the owner of Klaravich Stables, and William Lawrence. Introduced by mutual friends in 2004, the two typically buy about 50–60 horses a year.[7] Both hedge fund managers, they chose his name based upon their pattern of using terms from the finance industry to name their horses,[8] other examples being graded stakes winners Takeover Target and Currency Swap.[9]He is trained by Chad C. Brown.[2]Cloud Computing did not make his racing debut until February 11, 2017, when, as a three-year-old, he won a maiden special weight at Aqueduct Racetrack. He then finished second to J Boys Echo in the Gotham Stakes and third behind winner Irish War Cry in the Wood Memorial.[2] He earned enough points from these races to qualify on the 2017 Road to the Kentucky Derby.  However, his connections elected to bypass the race,[10] instead starting their Champagne Stakes winner, Practical Joke, who finished fifth.[11]Cloud Computing was one of the more highly regarded "new shooters" for the Preakness Stakes, a race which is typically won by horses who had earlier raced in the Kentucky Derby. The two favorites in the Preakness, Always Dreaming and Classic Empire, had finished first and fourth respectively in the Derby. These two went to an early lead and set a solid pace while Cloud Computing rated a few lengths behind in third. Around the final turn, Classic Empire surged to the front and Always Dreaming dropped back. In mid-stretch, Classic Empire had a three-length lead and looked the likely winner before Cloud Computing angled out from traffic and started closing ground rapidly. Classic Empire tried to rally but could not hold off Cloud Computing, who won by a head.[12][13]Cloud Computing became just the fourth horse in the last 34 years to win the Preakness after not having raced in the Derby. The last horse to do so was the filly Rachel Alexandra in 2009.[13] It was the first win of a Triple Crown race for his trainer Chad Brown and the second for jockey Javier Castellano, who was riding the colt for the first time.[14][15]"I'm not going to dispute the fact that I brought in a fresh horse as part of our strategy," said Brown. "Classic Empire and Always Dreaming are two outstanding horses and our strategy was, if we were going to ever beat them, let's take them on two weeks' rest when we have six, and it worked."[14]"It's incredibly special," said Klarman. "He's a great horse. I have the best trainer and the best jockey going for me. I never imagined it, but I'm thrilled." Klarman had grown up in Baltimore just a few blocks away from Pimlico and attended many runnings of the Preakness including Secretariat's win in 1973.[7]Cloud Computing was then given some time off before finishing fifth in the Jim Dandy Stakes at Saratoga on July 29. He followed up with a ninth place finish in the Travers Stakes on August 26.[2]Legend – ₩ = Triple Crown Winners, ♥ = FillyCloud computing providers are notable entities who have verifiably significant production cloud computing service offerings.This category has the following 6 subcategories, out of 6 total.The following 200 pages are in this category, out of approximately 283 total. This list may not reflect recent changes (learn more).Checkout the best deals on WorkstationsSuperior reliability. Unparalleled performance. Relied upon by industry leaders.Exclusively on Lenovo.comMake the Most of Your ThinkAgile SolutionAccelerate your Digital TransformationsIntel® Core™ i7 processorYoga Laptops available at Lenovo.comIf you're unsure about what Cloud Computing is, you are probably among the 95% of people that are already using cloud services, like online banking and social networks, but don't realize it.The "cloud" is a set of different types of hardware and software that work collectively to deliver many aspects of computing to the end-user as an online service.Cloud Computing is the use of hardware and software to deliver a service over a network (typically the Internet). With cloud computing, users can access files and use applications from any device that can access the Internet.An example of a Cloud Computing provider is Google's Gmail. Gmail users can access files and applications hosted by Google via the internet from any device.Unlike traditional computing where data is stored on your PC's local hard drive, the data in the cloud is stored on many physical and/or virtual servers that are hosted by a third-party service provider. An example of a cloud computing file storage provider is Dropbox. Dropbox files can be accessed from any device via the Internet.A Public Cloud is based on the standard cloud computing framework which consists of files, applications, storage and services available to the public via the internet. Gmail is an example of a Public Cloud.A Private Cloud is comprised of files, applications, storage and services that are implemented and protected within a corporate firewall, under the control of a corporate IT department. An example of a Private Cloud would be a company that uses Microsoft Exchange because Microsoft Exchange can only be accessed by an authorized user through a secure VPN connection.Some common services that are hosted in the cloud are hosted desktop, provided by companies like AT&T; hosted email like Gmail, provided by companies like Google; cloud storage, provided by companies like Dropbox; and streaming music, provided by companies like Spotify. These services, applications and files are stored in the cloud and can be accessed by users via any device.There are a wide range of companies and industry verticals that use cloud computing such as Amazon and Google. Small, medium, and large size public and private companies alike use cloud computing to reduce technology acquisition costs.The Cloud Computing market continues to grow year after year because companies are becoming more aware of the cost saving benefits of adopting the cloud.With Hardware services, companies are able to use the cloud service provider's equipment (storage, hardware, servers, and networking components) instead of spending large amounts of capital on equipment.With Software services, companies' applications are hosted by the cloud service provider and are made available over a network saving costly deployment and maintenance costs.While no storage solution is 100% safe, cloud storage providers can offer a safer and more accessible place for companies to store data than traditional computing methods.Depending on the service contract, duplicate copies of the companies' data can be stored on servers located in different geographies and protected by backup power supplies in the case of a disaster.Today, many companies are moving to a Hybrid Cloud Computing model. With this model, companies are given the flexibility of storing sensitive data securely in a private cloud while storing public data in a public cloud. Both infrastructures are kept as separate, unique entities.The cloud is not a fluffy white mass made up of tiny water droplets floating in cyberspace. The cloud is not impacted by weather changes like barometric pressure.The cloud is not a place in a single location. In fact, the cloud can be anywhere. The cloud can be in your companies' data center or hosted at a 3rd party data center.The growth of the cloud is not being driven by "big business." The growth of the cloud is being driven by consumers buying cloud ready devices that can connect to cloud computing services at work, at home, and on-the-go.The cloud is not "a fad." There are currently 1.2 billion people using Facebook worldwide. That number represents 11% of the world's population.View the status of a single orderIndia's Only Active Uptime Tier III Certified DatacenterIndia's First Vertically Auto-Scalable CloudTo be precise, cloud computing is the delivery of computing services like servers, storages and more over the Internet. The companies that offer these computing services are called cloud providers. They charge for cloud computing services based on usage.Cloud computing is usually classified on the basis of location, or on the service that the cloud is offering.Based on a cloud location, we can classify cloud as:Based on a service that the cloud is offering, we classify as:Depending on the type of data you’re working with, you’ll want to compare public, private, and hybrid clouds in terms of the different levels of security and management required.Cloud computing services fall into 4 categories: infrastructure as a service (IaaS), platform as a service (PaaS), software as a service (SaaS) and FaaS (functions as a service). These are sometimes called the cloud computing stack, because they build on top of one another.Platform-as-a-service (PaaS) refers to the supply an on-demand environment for developing, testing, delivering and managing software applications. It is designed to quickly create web or mobile apps, without worrying about setting up or managing the underlying infrastructure of servers, storage, network and databases needed for development.Software-as-a-service (SaaS) is a method for delivering software applications over the Internet as per the demand and on a subscription basis. SaaS helps you host and manage the software application and underlying infrastructure and handle any maintenance (software upgrades and security patching).FaaS adds another layer of abstraction to PaaS, so that developers are completely insulated from everything in the stack below their code. Instead of handling the hassles of virtual servers, containers, and application runtimes, they upload narrowly functional blocks of code, and set them to be triggered by a certain event. FaaS applications consume no IaaS resources until an event occurs, reducing pay-per-use fees.Although you do not realize you are probably using cloud computing right now, most of us use an online service to send email, edit documents, watch movies, etc. It is likely that cloud computing is making it all possible behind the scenes. Today a variety of organisations ranging from tiny startups to government agencies are embracing this technology for the following:Thanks for sharing the information regarding Cloud Computing this will really helpfull for meNice article! It's very helpful and useful Cloud computing is often used as a generalized term, but it's important to know the different types available.Comments are closed.CategoriesTerms of ServicesResourcesFollow us onaPPpFdNS zqbpyb LWMFtrsiEeDrlWmweBIjsFlDiFWlcweXbOtCloud Computing and virtualization is gaining popularity in these times. It simply is the kind of computing that relies on shared computing resources instead of local servers and personal devices.So now, the people work on virtualized platforms from anywhere. All the data centers, services, software are going on the cloud to the smooth functioning of the workplace. With the growing number of web-enabled devices access to data is mandatory and easier.It has below-mentioned benefits for modern enterprises:It greatly affects the IT costs and labor.No need to pay regular wages to IT professionals simple take the services.It is more scalable and offer better & secured storage.Protection, data security, and safety is a prime concern these days and cloud services offer the same. Collaboration and effective communication platforms are provided.Best work practices and flexibility is received.Access to automatic updates for your IT requirements is included.Some of the top cloud services and technologies are provided by Amazon, Microsoft, Google, VMware. Owing to the rise of cloud services and virtualized technologies, demand for skilled IT professionals has also risen in recent times. As a result, so many IT professionals are actively seeking these skills and getting validated with the Required IT Certifications for the technologies. If you are an IT professional, to future-proof your profile, you must seek the best IT certifications.In order to do that the first step is to take training programs to pass the exams. There are recognized training companies providing Cloud training and certification programs in multiple modes. One of my friend doing the Cloud computing certification from Mercury Solutions.He is doing well in his career and getting enough hike in his job positions after that. He says to me that Mercury Solutions is well known for its AWS training or Microsoft Azure courses or Vmware training in flex-modes. You can talk to their training consultant and get customized guidance.When we buy a Car, we have an option of buying individual parts of the car like tires, steering wheel, engine etc. and then start assembling it. Some parts are heavy, so we may need another person for lifting it. Some parts are electrical. We need electrician for that. Hence, there is a lot of work to do if we go for this option. What is the solution?We can select the option of buying the car. In regular Software process, we just buy the Car and start driving it. But then we have to bear the cost of keeping the Car on our premises. We need to take Car for maintenance. We have to fix issues ...When we buy a Car, we have an option of buying individual parts of the car like tires, steering wheel, engine etc. and then start assembling it. Some parts are heavy, so we may need another person for lifting it. Some parts are electrical. We need electrician for that. Hence, there is a lot of work to do if we go for this option. What is the solution?We can select the option of buying the car. In regular Software process, we just buy the Car and start driving it. But then we have to bear the cost of keeping the Car on our premises. We need to take Car for maintenance. We have to fix issues in Car by ourselves.In Cloud computing, we just rent the Car and start driving it. There is no need to buy/rent space to store the car. As soon as we are done driving, we return it back to Cloud provider. There is no need to go for maintenance. Cloud provider will give us another Car while the earlier one is going through maintenance. No need to waste time on fixing issues in Car. We just drive the Car and for the time we are driving it.I hope it helps.Follow me at Gautam Gupta to learn more about Cloud Computing.Pretty much everything involving data, and most of the things we deal in our every day life involves cloud computing. Things like posting on Facebook or uploading that file onto Google Drive, you are using a cloud.Enterprises can hire cloud services for storing their data and software with ease. (e.g: No installing software on each computer). One attractive feature of cloud computing is its mobility. The data stored on a cloud can be used by an employee any where and at any time. In all, cloud computing makes it easy for the administration as it is easy to manage and for the workers to acce...Pretty much everything involving data, and most of the things we deal in our every day life involves cloud computing. Things like posting on Facebook or uploading that file onto Google Drive, you are using a cloud.Enterprises can hire cloud services for storing their data and software with ease. (e.g: No installing software on each computer). One attractive feature of cloud computing is its mobility. The data stored on a cloud can be used by an employee any where and at any time. In all, cloud computing makes it easy for the administration as it is easy to manage and for the workers to access and store data.Individuals can use their own private clouds where they can store their data, which can act as backup plus you aren’t relying much on the hardware you have.pePrreomtppmKCgYRoXHtdWGPeOMQdFj vSsjbNtoydviNl EZHRRQtowfesksqStCPiAWnQGuKgQeABtYreBIes.ciwhMnWMore and more business profiles, such as e-commerce stores or corporate websites, are shifting toward Cloud hosting and we surely understand why. When it comes to bigger needs, there is a wide range of beneficial features that Cloud hosting has to offer over the Shared and VPS plans. Le...Cloud computing offers your business many benefits. It allows you to set up what is essentially a virtual office to give you the flexibility of connecting to your business anywhere, any time. With the growing number of web-enabled devices used in today's business environment (e.g. smartphones, tablets), access to your data is even easier. There are many benefits to moving your business to the cloud:Reduced IT costsMoving to cloud computing may reduce the cost of managing and maintaining your IT systems. Rather than purchasing expensive systems and equipment for your business, you can reduce...Cloud computing offers your business many benefits. It allows you to set up what is essentially a virtual office to give you the flexibility of connecting to your business anywhere, any time. With the growing number of web-enabled devices used in today's business environment (e.g. smartphones, tablets), access to your data is even easier. There are many benefits to moving your business to the cloud:Reduced IT costsMoving to cloud computing may reduce the cost of managing and maintaining your IT systems. Rather than purchasing expensive systems and equipment for your business, you can reduce your costs by using the resources of your cloud computing service provider. You may be able to reduce your operating costs because:ScalabilityYour business can scale up or scale down your operation and storage needs quickly to suit your situation, allowing flexibility as your needs change. Rather than purchasing and installing expensive upgrades yourself, your cloud computer service provider can handle this for you. Using the cloud frees up your time so you can get on with running your business.Business continuityProtecting your data and systems is an important part of business continuity planning. Whether you experience a natural disaster, power failure or other crisis, having your data stored in the cloud ensures it is backed up and protected in a secure and safe location. Being able to access your data again quickly allows you to conduct business as usual, minimising any downtime and loss of productivity.Collaboration efficiencyCollaboration in a cloud environment gives your business the ability to communicate and share more easily outside of the traditional methods. If you are working on a project across different locations, you could use cloud computing to give employees, contractors and third parties access to the same files. You could also choose a cloud computing model that makes it easy for you to share your records with your advisers (e.g. a quick and secure way to share accounting records with your accountant or financial adviser).Flexibility of work practicesCloud computing allows employees to be more flexible in their work practices. For example, you have the ability to access data from home, on holiday, or via the commute to and from work (providing you have an internet connection). If you need access to your data while you are off-site, you can connect to your virtual office, quickly and easily.Access to automatic updatesAccess to automatic updates for your IT requirements may be included in your service fee. Depending on your cloud computing service provider, your system will regularly be updated with the latest technology. This could include up-to-date versions of software, as well as upgrades to servers and computer processing power.Cloud computing has gained a good popularity in the past few years due to its self-service capability, scalability, flexibility, and affordability. Cloud computing is referred to as the cloud, cloud server hosting, cloud hosting. Cloud computing is similar to traditional hosting, which makes use of the single dedicated server, as cloud computing uses virtualization technology to pool or share resources from the underlying network of the physical servers. Cloud computing delivers shared computing resources, along with the data and software through the Internet. It is one of the most common w...Cloud computing has gained a good popularity in the past few years due to its self-service capability, scalability, flexibility, and affordability. Cloud computing is referred to as the cloud, cloud server hosting, cloud hosting. Cloud computing is similar to traditional hosting, which makes use of the single dedicated server, as cloud computing uses virtualization technology to pool or share resources from the underlying network of the physical servers. Cloud computing delivers shared computing resources, along with the data and software through the Internet. It is one of the most common ways of accessing the cloud. Mostly, intranets and dedicated networks are used.HostingRaja Cloud Hosting:HostingRaja cloud hosting services come with the low cost and top quality in India. We are one of the popular Cloud hosting service provider and aim at providing quality services. Our cloud hosting services are fully managed, our team members are there to help you 24/7. Our team members will help you to manage and run your website without any issues. We provide cloud hosting on both Linux and Windows operating system, you can choose the OS based on your requirements. Buy cloud servers from Hosting Raja and get upto 55% off.HostingRaja Cloud Hosting features:1)Free Control Panel2)24/7 customer support3)Email spam filter4)Support multiple PHP5)Inbuilt CSS/JS optimizer6)Select from Apache Or Nginx7)Real-time checking of PHP vulnerability8)Free SSL certificate9)Real-time of malware Injection scan10)99.99% of uptime and much more of featuresIn HostingRaja cloud hosting you will be offered with numerous of benefits for the lowest cost. They offer fully managed cloud hosting services and their team members will assist you with all kind of queries. Their cloud hosting services come with both Linux and Windows operating system, you can choose the operating system based on your website needs. They offer 55% off on their cloud serversThink about a company which just got a requirement from a huge government agency to deliver a high-efficiency work in terms of construction or IT project.If the same company would go ahead with investing in a huge amount of money in its IT infrastructure and buying high-end personal computers for its staff members, then it would cost a fortune and the initial investment might give a lot of burden to the company.Now, they can simply get the cloud servers and leave all their IT loads over there. Also, to host a lot of load of personal work over there and can work with a cheaper and basic hard...Think about a company which just got a requirement from a huge government agency to deliver a high-efficiency work in terms of construction or IT project.If the same company would go ahead with investing in a huge amount of money in its IT infrastructure and buying high-end personal computers for its staff members, then it would cost a fortune and the initial investment might give a lot of burden to the company.Now, they can simply get the cloud servers and leave all their IT loads over there. Also, to host a lot of load of personal work over there and can work with a cheaper and basic hardware onsite.Yes, cloud computing does make a sense and this was only one example of them. There are many storage, compute, graphic process usage for the same.sBuSHcpaboJSpntWswqolmSjryYbJTeMbdz kbDggtyfKH RZbRHELreQHBgIDaCNlYwct aTUgEHnnmlYfUHiQBxjmXVmaixxtBJOWYeTidNQVMnCloud Computing offers you a great flexibility to update, access and maintain important data any time from any where. It facilitates you to access all IT services through internet. You don’t need to install & maintain on-premise software on your local server and desktops. Some main features of cloud computing are better synchronization, integration, reduction in IT cost , scalability and customization. In past days, organizations spend lots to money to develop and installing software to improve their operations. But with the innovation of cloud computing, you can use all this features as a ...Cloud Computing offers you a great flexibility to update, access and maintain important data any time from any where. It facilitates you to access all IT services through internet. You don’t need to install & maintain on-premise software on your local server and desktops. Some main features of cloud computing are better synchronization, integration, reduction in IT cost , scalability and customization. In past days, organizations spend lots to money to develop and installing software to improve their operations. But with the innovation of cloud computing, you can use all this features as a services over internet.Cloud computing provides many advantages:I actually envision a day when the “Cloud" is the only real computer in exi...Cloud computing provides many advantages:I actually envision a day when the “Cloud" is the only real computer in existence. All home computers at that point will simply be stream terminals with all the processing happening at remote data centers.I'd be able to log on to any terminal and it would be my computer, configured the way I like with my apps and games all right there for me, no matter where in the world I log in.The only machines that would need local storage and Real CPU power are portable machines that may not always have a connection to the cloud.We are getting there, but i think such services and devices wont be truly feasible till we hit 10gbps home internet speedsThe benefits of moving your business to the cloud are innumerable and compelling. One of the biggest is simply the cost. Many companies that could not have been born and flourished in the past now exist thanks to cloud computing. From giants like Facebook to a one-woman band that sells gift baskets with Instagram to promote their product and uses Amazon to take orders. The entry costs in many industries have been greatly reduced.You no longer need to worry about a complicated IT project and expensive hardware to meet your needs. You can simply use a pay-per-use subscription model to use the...The benefits of moving your business to the cloud are innumerable and compelling. One of the biggest is simply the cost. Many companies that could not have been born and flourished in the past now exist thanks to cloud computing. From giants like Facebook to a one-woman band that sells gift baskets with Instagram to promote their product and uses Amazon to take orders. The entry costs in many industries have been greatly reduced.You no longer need to worry about a complicated IT project and expensive hardware to meet your needs. You can simply use a pay-per-use subscription model to use the cloud infrastructure you need, which will be much easier in your bottom line. Reducing your initial capital expenditure is always positive.To utilize the storage space efficiently.Top 10 reasons why organizations should use cloud computingCloud computing has been evolving the way businesses operate these days. Companies of all the shapes and sizes have been adapting to this new technology. Industry experts believe that cloud computing will continue to benefit the mid-sized and large companies in the coming few years.The major advantages of cloud computing are:1. Cost-effective:Cloud computing is known to be a cost effective method to store the data on the cloud. Rather than having desktop software, businesses can store the confidential business information in the ...Top 10 reasons why organizations should use cloud computingCloud computing has been evolving the way businesses operate these days. Companies of all the shapes and sizes have been adapting to this new technology. Industry experts believe that cloud computing will continue to benefit the mid-sized and large companies in the coming few years.The major advantages of cloud computing are:1. Cost-effective:Cloud computing is known to be a cost effective method to store the data on the cloud. Rather than having desktop software, businesses can store the confidential business information in the cloud. There’s no need to pay the licensing fees for multiple users. One can pay one-time cost or pay-as-you-go for maintenance of the data.2. Unlimited storage space:Storing information in the cloud gives you unlimited space capacity. Hence, one does not need to worry about running out of storage when cloud computing is used. You can easily increase your current storage space availability also.3. Backup and Recovery:As all your data would be stored in the cloud, backing it up and recovering it as when required would be much easier rather than storing it on a physical device. Most of the service providers can handle the restoration of the data too and reduce the risks of confidential information.4. Scalability:This is a built-in feature for cloud deployments. The business owners need to pay for the applications and data storage they require. Clouds can be scaled as per your specific needs and the ever-changing IT system demands.5. Device diversity:Cloud computing services can be accessed from anywhere, at any time via internet. The data can be accessed from traditional desktops, smartphones, tablets, etc. “Bring your own device (BYOD)” policy can be implemented in the organization to bring mobility to the business operations. The employees would be able to access the information from their own mobile devices from any location. Hence, cloud computing solutions offer great flexibility and location independence.6. Faster deployment:The companies would be able to get their applications running quickly as cloud computing offers improved manageability and lower maintenance needs. The IT departments can adjust the resources with the fluctuating demands when they use cloud computing services.7. Energy efficiency:Traditional IT servers require 24 X 7 power supply to keep them cool. Cloud computing services are considered to be a “greener” option as it saves the energy.8. Agility:There is no need to invest money for expensive infrastructure when you start using cloud computing services for your business. Cloud can help to bring products to market faster because the development teams would not have to depend on IT teams anymore.9. Security:Information stored in mobile devices or laptops can be stolen easily. When you use cloud computing services, a username and password would be required to login where the data is stored. Hence, it is considered to be a secure option of storing the data.10. Competitiveness:Cloud services help business organizations act faster than the competitors. The important decisions can be taken quicker. Cloud services can surely help you remain competitive in the industry.Cloud changes everything in an organization. Think about it.You can visit cloud computing services page to know more about our offerings.The cloud is just a metaphor for the Internet. Cloud Computing is a technology uses the internet and central remote servers to maintain data and applications. Cloud computing allows consumers and businesses to use applications without installation and access their personal files at any computer with internet access.This is the basic brief description of cloud computing. The biggest need for cloud computing in the storage facility and convenience to register and keep your data safely for further uses.Also below mentioned/listed are few advantages of cloud computing:-The cloud is just a metaphor for the Internet. Cloud Computing is a technology uses the internet and central remote servers to maintain data and applications. Cloud computing allows consumers and businesses to use applications without installation and access their personal files at any computer with internet access.This is the basic brief description of cloud computing. The biggest need for cloud computing in the storage facility and convenience to register and keep your data safely for further uses.Also below mentioned/listed are few advantages of cloud computing:-These are some benefits which are used for the person as well as the businesses. There are also others which leads to the improvement of both. We should leverage the need for it and effectively utilize these services.Cloud computing is a new trend in the IT sector. Cloud computing can allow people to access their files from anywhere. Moreover, cloud computing has a great impact on the way you store and run applications. It has made an easy way to collaborate and communicate with the team members. Additionally, cloud computing is attractive for the business owners as it decreases the requirement for the users to plan ahead for provisioning, and allow the enterprises to start from the small and increase resources only when there is a rise of service demand.Simply put, cloud computing is computing based on the internet. Where in the past, people would run applications or programs from software downloaded on a physical computer or server in their building, cloud computing allows people access to the same kinds of applications through the internet.When you update your Facebook status, you’re using cloud computing. Checking your bank balance on your phone? You’re in the cloud again. Chances are you rely on cloud computing to solve the challenges faced by small businesses, whether you’re firing off emails on the move or using a bunch of apps to he...Simply put, cloud computing is computing based on the internet. Where in the past, people would run applications or programs from software downloaded on a physical computer or server in their building, cloud computing allows people access to the same kinds of applications through the internet.When you update your Facebook status, you’re using cloud computing. Checking your bank balance on your phone? You’re in the cloud again. Chances are you rely on cloud computing to solve the challenges faced by small businesses, whether you’re firing off emails on the move or using a bunch of apps to help you manage your workload.In short, cloud is fast becoming the new normal. Cloud computing increases efficiency, helps improve cash flow and offers many more benefits…Check out ten of the best below.1. Flexibility2. Disaster recovery3. Automatic software updates4. Capital-expenditure Free5. Increased collaboration6. Work from anywhere7. Document control8. Security9. Competitiveness10. Environmentally friendlyNot moved to the cloud yet?Any three of the above benefits would be enough to convince many businesses to move their business into the cloud. But when you add up all ten? It’s approaching no-brainer territory.Let me brief you the need of cloud computing with a practical scenario, Since every company Need of cloud computing is vastly increased today. Those who worked in the local data base or in the local servers handling huge amount of data can easily understands the need of cloud computing.For others here is the detailed answer for Why do we need Cloud Computing.?I hope you know about Flipkart’s Big Billion Day, where in that day you’ll big discounts on products across all categories. But once they started this campaign in 2014 it has become a massive failure because of using local servers.Beca...Let me brief you the need of cloud computing with a practical scenario, Since every company Need of cloud computing is vastly increased today. Those who worked in the local data base or in the local servers handling huge amount of data can easily understands the need of cloud computing.For others here is the detailed answer for Why do we need Cloud Computing.?I hope you know about Flipkart’s Big Billion Day, where in that day you’ll big discounts on products across all categories. But once they started this campaign in 2014 it has become a massive failure because of using local servers.Because of having local servers and storage the website cant able to handle the huge unexpected traffic..!The only solution for this failure is Cloud Computing.!!Benefits of Cloud Computing:Now:If you have decided to move to CLOUD..,Then Amazon Web Services is the popular and most used cloud service platform which is used all around the world.You can get here the complete information about Amazon Web Services..!Working on cloud is a trend now. Why? Well, because of the below mentioned benefits that are offered by Cloud Computing:Working on cloud is a trend now. Why? Well, because of the below mentioned benefits that are offered by Cloud Computing:For No. 1 cloud based CRM solution refer to Salesforce.For Free Cloud Based Cross Browser Testing Platform refer to LambdaTest.Cheers!Tia Mongla,Product Specialist at LambdaTestCloud computing provides features like flexibility, elasticity,'pay per use', scalability ,etc.Watch this introductory video on Cloud Computing:Cloud computing provides a simple way to access servers, storage, databases and a broad set of application services over the Internet. cloud computing helps save substantial capital costs without spending on in-house server storage and application needs. By shunning on introduce foundation, organizations can get rid of related operational costs, for example, for power, ventilating and different expenses including organization costs. Now day’s many more smallest and bigger company is using cloud computing because cloud computing is providing his all services at very cheap prices and that is ...Cloud computing provides a simple way to access servers, storage, databases and a broad set of application services over the Internet. cloud computing helps save substantial capital costs without spending on in-house server storage and application needs. By shunning on introduce foundation, organizations can get rid of related operational costs, for example, for power, ventilating and different expenses including organization costs. Now day’s many more smallest and bigger company is using cloud computing because cloud computing is providing his all services at very cheap prices and that is the reason small firms also can use the benefits of cloud computing.Cloud-based services are ideal for businesses with growing or fluctuating bandwidth demands. All type businesses are suitable for investing in robust disaster recovery, but for smaller businesses that lack the required cash this is often more an ideal than the reality. Cloud offers you the possibility of putting away your records and getting to, putting away and recovering them from any web-empowered interface. The web administrations interfaces are typically basic. Whenever and put you have high accessibility, speed, adaptability and security for your surroundings.Cloud computing gives us considerable security Because your data is stored in the cloud, you can get to it regardless of what happens to your machine. What's more, you can even rub information from lost tablets so it doesn't get into the wrong hands. Thus we can consider that cloud computing is very beneficial for our business to around all.Strictly speaking, cloud computing is not necessary. However it is not necessary in the same way that driving a car is not necessary when you can drive a horse and buggy. A horse and buggy can do most things a car can, but much slower and in less style. And you don’t see too many horse and buggy businesses left today.Cloud resources is in great demand for individual as well as business needs today. The reason is simple that your data on cloud can be viewed or accessed anytime and from anywhere you are. So, cloud in all is having universal accessibility of your stored data at your convenience.To some account, all of us are the users of cloud computing. Well, it is true for everyone indeed who uses Gmail account to store data. Gmail is an efficient cloud application. Most of the businesses are seen moving to cloud when it comes to accessing their data conveniently and that too by multiple users at once. T...Cloud resources is in great demand for individual as well as business needs today. The reason is simple that your data on cloud can be viewed or accessed anytime and from anywhere you are. So, cloud in all is having universal accessibility of your stored data at your convenience.To some account, all of us are the users of cloud computing. Well, it is true for everyone indeed who uses Gmail account to store data. Gmail is an efficient cloud application. Most of the businesses are seen moving to cloud when it comes to accessing their data conveniently and that too by multiple users at once. The significance of cloud computing is evident with the use of mobile devices. Mobile technologies has been integrated with cloud resources and this is how one can access the data from anywhere.The best part of cloud computing is that using the data on cloud is no rocket science. One can access anything desired using internet without any technical knowledge at all. You really don’t need and hardware or software in addition even if you need to use the data placed online. So, isn’t it amazing to know that you have been using cloud computing for long without getting deep into its technicalities ever since long.Foremost because of corporate idiocy as they thought it was a cool buzzword.A very distant second is actual intermittent high intensity computing use so companies can for a time use large computing power without the permanent investment. 3D graphics rendering, machine learning, computational chemistry and fluid dynamics.But the vast majority of cloud you hear is pharmaceutical grade pure idiocy.Historically exemplified in Microsoft’s moronic slogan: mobile first, cloud first.Previously, businesses were charged alot on software and hardware, but now with the help of cloud computing, we are able to curtail these expenses. This is the key reason why people are considering to opt for such services.No need for additional hardware and software just for saving and running applications. Cloud computing helps you do this online.All of your data and applications could be accessed anywhere and at anytime.Basically, distributed computing will be processing dependent on the web. Where before, individuals would run applications or projects from programming downloaded on a physical PC or server in their structure, distributed computing permits individuals access to similar sorts of uses through the web.When you update your Facebook status, you're utilizing distributed computing. Checking your bank balance on your telephone? You're in the cloud once more. Odds are you depend on distributed computing to illuminate the difficulties looked by private ventures, regardless of whether you're shooting ...Basically, distributed computing will be processing dependent on the web. Where before, individuals would run applications or projects from programming downloaded on a physical PC or server in their structure, distributed computing permits individuals access to similar sorts of uses through the web.When you update your Facebook status, you're utilizing distributed computing. Checking your bank balance on your telephone? You're in the cloud once more. Odds are you depend on distributed computing to illuminate the difficulties looked by private ventures, regardless of whether you're shooting messages moving or utilizing a lot of applications to enable you to deal with your remaining task at hand. To put it plainly, cloud is quick turning into the new ordinary. Before the finish of 2015 it's assessed that 90% of UK organizations will use at any rate one cloud administration.1. AdaptabilityCloud-based administrations are perfect for organizations with developing or fluctuating data transfer capacity requests. On the off chance that your needs increment it's anything but difficult to scale up your cloud limit, drawing on the administration's remote servers. In like manner, on the off chance that you have to downsize once more, the adaptability is heated into the administration. This degree of spryness can give organizations utilizing distributed computing a genuine bit of leeway over contenders – it's not astounding that CIOs and IT Directors rank 'operational dexterity' as a top driver for cloud reception.2. Fiasco recuperationOrganizations of all sizes ought to put resources into powerful catastrophe recuperation, however for littler organizations that come up short on the required money and skill, this is regularly more a perfect than the truth. Cloud is currently helping more associations resist that pattern. As indicated by Aberdeen Group, private companies are twice as likely as bigger organizations to have actualized cloud-based reinforcement and recuperation arrangements that spare time, keep away from enormous in advance venture and move up outsider aptitude as a component of the arrangement.3. Programmed programming refreshesThe magnificence of distributed computing is that the servers are off-premise, far out and out of your hair. Providers deal with them for you and take off ordinary programming refreshes – including security refreshes – so you don't need to stress over sitting idle keeping up the framework yourself. Leaving you allowed to concentrate on the things that issue, such as developing your business.4. Capital-consumption FreeDistributed computing removes the staggering expense of equipment. You just pay as you proceed to appreciate a membership based model that is thoughtful to your income. Add to that the simplicity of arrangement and the executives and all of a sudden your unnerving, shaggy IT anticipate takes a gander at part friendlier. It's never been simpler to venture out cloud selection.5. Expanded cooperationAt the point when your groups can get to, alter and offer archives whenever, from anyplace, they're ready to accomplish all the more together, and improve. Cloud-based work process and document sharing applications help them make refreshes continuously and gives them full perceivability of their coordinated efforts.6. Work from anyplaceWith distributed computing, in the event that you have a web association you can be grinding away. What's more, with most genuine cloud administrations offering versatile applications, you're not limited by which gadget you must hand.The outcome? Organizations can offer increasingly adaptable working advantages to representatives so they can appreciate the work-life balance that suits them – without profitability enduring a shot. One examination revealed that 42% of laborers would swap a bit of their compensation for the capacity to work from home. All things considered they'd be happy to accept a 6% decrease in salary.7. Archive controlThe more workers and accomplices team up on records, the more noteworthy the requirement for watertight archive control. Prior to the cloud, specialists needed to send records forward and backward as email connections to be chipped away at by one client at any given moment. At some point or another – normally sooner – you end up with a wreck of clashing record substance, organizations and titles.Furthermore, as even the littlest organizations become progressively worldwide, the extension for confusion rises. As indicated by one investigation, "73% of learning specialists work together with individuals in various time zones and locales in any event month to month".When you make the transition to distributed computing, all records are put away halfway and everybody sees one rendition of reality. More noteworthy perceivability means improved joint effort, which at last methods better work and a more beneficial main concern. In case despite everything you're depending on the old way, it could be an ideal opportunity to take a stab at something somewhat more streamlined.8. SecurityLost PCs are a billion dollar business issue. Also, possibly more noteworthy than the loss of a costly bit of unit is the loss of the delicate information inside it. Distributed computing gives you more noteworthy security when this occurs. Since your information is put away in the cloud, you can get to it regardless of what befalls your machine. Furthermore, you can even remotely wipe information from lost PCs so it doesn't get into the off-base hands.9. AggressivenessWish there was a straightforward advance you could take to turn out to be increasingly aggressive? Moving to the cloud offers access to big business class innovation, for everybody. It additionally enables littler organizations to act quicker than enormous, set up contenders. Pay-as-you-go administration and cloud business applications mean little outfits can keep running with the huge young men, and disturb the market, while staying lean and agile. David currently packs a Goliath-sized punch.10. Earth agreeableWhile the above focuses spell out the advantages of distributed computing for your business, moving to the cloud isn't an altogether narrow minded act. The earth gets a little love as well. At the point when your cloud needs vary, your server limit scales here and there to fit. So you just utilize the vitality you need and you don't leave larger than usual carbon impressions. This is something near our souls at Salesforce, where we attempt our best to make reasonable arrangements with insignificant natural effect.Businesses of today are progressing through charismatic improvements to thrive a marketplace respected of their categories. They are trying to adapt solutions which are easy to use, manage, scalable, and most importantly reduces their costs.As the advancements in the technology sector are grooming day by day, more efficient technologies that are being developed offer businesses targeted solutions for their problems. The progression in moving towards the digital transformation has put forth several technologies on the front. These technologies have shown enough advancements to eradicate the ...Businesses of today are progressing through charismatic improvements to thrive a marketplace respected of their categories. They are trying to adapt solutions which are easy to use, manage, scalable, and most importantly reduces their costs.As the advancements in the technology sector are grooming day by day, more efficient technologies that are being developed offer businesses targeted solutions for their problems. The progression in moving towards the digital transformation has put forth several technologies on the front. These technologies have shown enough advancements to eradicate the businesses tough times and put them in a more stable situation. These most emergent are Artificial Intelligence, Internet of Things, Virtual Reality, Cloud Computing etc. Cloud Computing is by far the most proficient, adapted and beneficial for the businesses.Cloud computing is the on-demand availability of computing resources such as CPU, RAM, storage etc. over the Internet. The computing services are facilitated by the computers located in Virtual Data Centers, rather than a physical server that is on-premise. This offers the businesses to reduce their IT infrastructure as the data storage centers wouldn’t be needed anymore for the storage purposes.Example: Cloud computing isn’t something that is hard to understand. Let’s give you an example from your daily life usage. You must be familiar with Gmail, Yahoo, or any sort of storage service providers like Dropbox, Microsoft One Drive etc. These are the Cloud computing services and let me tell you how. Take Gmail for an instance, and ask yourself, are the mails stored in any of your storage devices? Your answer would be “No”. The mails that you accessed are actually stored in one of the many Google’s Data Centers worldwide that upon your request gives you the desired data. And the platform which gives you the interface has been designed by google, hence, it is a cloud service.Since Cloud Computing rectifies the businesses costs and IT infrastructure space, it has gained enormous popularity in the market. Majority of the companies are now preferring the use of Cloud Services to reduce their on-premises IT infrastructure and gives their business the empowerment of Digital Transformation.However, keeping in mind what Cloud computing has to offer, it has become an essential need for the organizations. Here are the reasons you need Cloud Computing for your business or as an individual.1. Cost Savings:Cloud computing reduces a business costs by providing Virtual Data centers. Since, the data centers are no longer needed on-premises for data storage, space is reduced hence cutting down the cost. Deploying a Cloud Technology will save you from expensive hardware that is needed to run an application, instead it is done by the Cloud.2. Security:Upon the storage of your data through a Cloud Storage provider, the data is extremely secure. Data centers of Cloud Technologies are compliant with Service Level agreements and provide high levels of security barriers to save their clients data from data breaches and outages.In some cases, employees lose their laptops which is essentially one of the biggest problems organizations face. The data, if stored on the laptop can prove damaging to the entities. Since, cloud services offer Internet available data storage and application access, losing a laptop wouldn’t cause such problem. Data that is even remotely used by the employee for which he was given access can also be wiped out. So, data security is more advanced than the conventional security measures.3. Work From Anywhere:Cloud Services provides an organizations’ employees to work from anywhere, anytime. As the data and other business applications are stored in the cloud and users are given access, it gives them the liberty to work from anywhere, anytime.Some of the cloud services like dinCloud which also offer mobile apps imply that you can access and manage your workload through compatible mobiles. This has transformed the workload management and made the workload readily available to remote employees.4. Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery (BC/DR):In a running market, a business cannot be secured even with some of the most advanced precautionary measures. For businesses, data confidentiality is the utmost priority as it keeps a track from their latest business analytical insights to yearly records.On the other hand, there is a possibility of data disaster which can break your workload momentum at once leaving the business from that was once running to immediately stopped. Cloud Services provide a Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery plan that can keep your data backed up during a data outage and make sure business is on the go.Conclusion:Cloud Technologies also provide the corporations flexibility, agility, customer support, and much more. Seeing these, it is essential needs for an organization to keep their data secure, workload mobile, and keeping it centrally managed. Seeing the benefits and contributions of Cloud computing, it is highly needed from Smaller to Large enterprises of any scale.A beginner’s guideSimply put, cloud computing is the delivery of computing services—including servers, storage, databases, networking, software, analytics, and intelligence—over the Internet (“the cloud”) to offer faster innovation, flexible resources, and economies of scale. You typically pay only for cloud services you use, helping lower your operating costs, run your infrastructure more efficiently and scale as your business needs change.Cloud computing is a big shift from the traditional way businesses think about IT resources. Here are seven common reasons organisations are turning to cloud computing services:Cloud computing eliminates the capital expense of buying hardware and software and setting up and running on-site datacenters—the racks of servers, the round-the-clock electricity for power and cooling, the IT experts for managing the infrastructure. It adds up fast.Most cloud computing services are provided self service and on demand, so even vast amounts of computing resources can be provisioned in minutes, typically with just a few mouse clicks, giving businesses a lot of flexibility and taking the pressure off capacity planning.The benefits of cloud computing services include the ability to scale elastically. In cloud speak, that means delivering the right amount of IT resources—for example, more or less computing power, storage, bandwidth—right when it is needed and from the right geographic location.On-site datacenters typically require a lot of “racking and stacking”—hardware setup, software patching, and other time-consuming IT management chores. Cloud computing removes the need for many of these tasks, so IT teams can spend time on achieving more important business goals.The biggest cloud computing services run on a worldwide network of secure datacenters, which are regularly upgraded to the latest generation of fast and efficient computing hardware. This offers several benefits over a single corporate datacenter, including reduced network latency for applications and greater economies of scale.Cloud computing makes data backup, disaster recovery and business continuity easier and less expensive because data can be mirrored at multiple redundant sites on the cloud provider’s network.Many cloud providers offer a broad set of policies, technologies and controls that strengthen your security posture overall, helping protect your data, apps and infrastructure from potential threats.Not all clouds are the same and not one type of cloud computing is right for everyone. Several different models, types and services have evolved to help offer the right solution for your needs.First, you need to determine the type of cloud deployment or cloud computing architecture, that your cloud services will be implemented on. There are three different ways to deploy cloud services: on a public cloud, private cloud or hybrid cloud.Public clouds are owned and operated by a third-party cloud service providers, which deliver their computing resources like servers and storage over the Internet. Microsoft Azure is an example of a public cloud. With a public cloud, all hardware, software and other supporting infrastructure is owned and managed by the cloud provider. You access these services and manage your account using a web browser.A private cloud refers to cloud computing resources used exclusively by a single business or organisation. A private cloud can be physically located on the company’s on-site datacenter. Some companies also pay third-party service providers to host their private cloud. A private cloud is one in which the services and infrastructure are maintained on a private network.Hybrid clouds combine public and private clouds, bound together by technology that allows data and applications to be shared between them. By allowing data and applications to move between private and public clouds, a hybrid cloud gives your business greater flexibility, more deployment options and helps optimise your existing infrastructure, security and compliance.Most cloud computing services fall into four broad categories: infrastructure as a service (IaaS), platform as a service (PaaS), serverless and software as a service (SaaS). These are sometimes called the cloud computing stack because they build on top of one another. Knowing what they are and how they are different makes it easier to accomplish your business goals.The most basic category of cloud computing services. With IaaS, you rent IT infrastructure—servers and virtual machines (VMs), storage, networks, operating systems—from a cloud provider on a pay-as-you-go basisPlatform as a service refers to cloud computing services that supply an on-demand environment for developing, testing, delivering and managing software applications. PaaS is designed to make it easier for developers to quickly create web or mobile apps, without worrying about setting up or managing the underlying infrastructure of servers, storage, network and databases needed for development.Overlapping with PaaS, serverless computing focuses on building app functionality without spending time continually managing the servers and infrastructure required to do so. The cloud provider handles the setup, capacity planning and server management for you. Serverless architectures are highly scalable and event-driven, only using resources when a specific function or trigger occurs.Software as a service is a method for delivering software applications over the Internet, on demand and typically on a subscription basis. With SaaS, cloud providers host and manage the software application and underlying infrastructure and handle any maintenance, like software upgrades and security patching. Users connect to the application over the Internet, usually with a web browser on their phone, tablet or PC.You are probably using cloud computing right now, even if you don’t realise it. If you use an online service to send email, edit documents, watch movies or TV, listen to music, play games or store pictures and other files, it is likely that cloud computing is making it all possible behind the scenes. The first cloud computing services are barely a decade old, but already a variety of organisations—from tiny startups to global corporations, government agencies to non-profits—are embracing the technology for all sorts of reasons.Here are a few examples of what is possible today with cloud services from a cloud provider:Quickly build, deploy and scale applications—web, mobile and API. Take advantage of cloud-native technologies and approaches, such as containers, Kubernetes, microservices architecture, API-driven communication and DevOps.Reduce application development cost and time by using cloud infrastructures that can easily be scaled up or down.Protect your data more cost-efficiently—and at massive scale—by transferring your data over the Internet to an offsite cloud storage system that is accessible from any location and any device.Unify your data across teams, divisions and locations in the cloud. Then use cloud services, such as machine learning and artificial intelligence, to uncover insights for more informed decisions.Connect with your audience anywhere, anytime, on any device with high-definition video and audio with global distribution.Use intelligent models to help engage customers and provide valuable insights from the data captured.Also known as software as a service (SaaS), on-demand software lets you offer the latest software versions and updates around to customers—anytime they need, anywhere they are.Microsoft is a leading global provider of cloud computing services for businesses of all sizes. To learn more about the Microsoft cloud platform, our Kubernetes on Azure offering, our serverless application platform and how Microsoft Azure compares to other cloud providers, see What is Azure? and Azure vs. AWS.Go SocialMicrosoft AzureCommunitySupportAccountTrustedHello from Seattle.Updated: An introduction to cloud computing right from the basics up to IaaS and PaaS, hybrid, public, and private cloud, AWS and Azure.By
               
Steve Ranger

            
                    
        
                                        |            December 13, 2018 -- 12:24 GMT (17:54 IST)
        
                                                                                    | Topic: CloudWhat is cloud computing, in simple terms?Cloud computing is the delivery of on-demand computing services -- from applications to storage and processing power -- typically over the internet and on a pay-as-you-go basis.Top cloud providers 2019: AWS, Microsoft Azure, Google CloudThe cloud computing race in 2019 will have a definite multi-cloud spin.Read MoreHow does cloud computing work?Rather than owning their own computing infrastructure or data centers, companies can rent access to anything from applications to storage from a cloud service provider.One benefit of using cloud computing services is that firms can avoid the upfront cost and complexity of owning and maintaining their own IT infrastructure, and instead simply pay for what they use, when they use it.In turn, providers of cloud computing services can benefit from significant economies of scale by delivering the same services to a wide range of customers.What cloud computing services are available?Cloud computing services cover a vast range of options now, from the basics of storage, networking, and processing power through to natural language processing and artificial intelligence as well as standard office applications. Pretty much any service that doesn't require you to be physically close to the computer hardware that you are using can now be delivered via the cloud.What are examples of cloud computing?Cloud computing underpins a vast number of services. That includes consumer services like Gmail or the cloud back-up of the photos on your smartphone, though to the services which allow large enterprises to host all their data and run all of their applications in the cloud.  Netflix relies on cloud computing services to run its its video streaming service and its other business systems too, and have a number of other organisations.Cloud computing is becoming the default option for many apps: software vendors are increasingly offering their applications as services over the internet rather than standalone products as they try to switch to a subscription model. However, there is a potential downside to cloud computing, in that it can also introduce new costs and new risks for companies using it.Why is it called cloud computing?A fundamental concept behind cloud computing is that the location of the service, and many of the details such as the hardware or operating system on which it is running, are largely irrelevant to the user. It's with this in mind that the metaphor of the cloud was borrowed from old telecoms network schematics, in which the public telephone network (and later the internet) was often represented as a cloud to denote that the just didn't matter -- it was just a cloud of stuff. This is an over-simplification of course; for many customers location of their services and data remains a key issue.What is the history of cloud computing?Cloud computing as a term has been around since the early 2000s, but the concept of computing-as-a-service has been around for much, much longer -- as far back as the 1960s, when computer bureaus would allow companies to rent time on a mainframe, rather than have to buy one themselves.These 'time-sharing' services were largely overtaken by the rise of the PC which made owning a computer much more affordable, and then in turn by the rise of corporate data centers where companies would store vast amounts of data.But the concept of renting access to computing power has resurfaced again and again -- in the application service providers, utility computing, and grid computing of the late 1990s and early 2000s. This was followed by cloud computing, which really took hold with the emergence of software as a service and hyperscale cloud computing providers such as Amazon Web Services.How important is the cloud?Building the infrastructure to support cloud computing now accounts for more than a third of all IT spending worldwide, according to research from IDC. Meanwhile spending on traditional, in-house IT continues to slide as computing workloads continue to move to the cloud, whether that is public cloud services offered by vendors or private clouds built by enterprises themselves.451 Research predicts that around one-third of enterprise IT spending will be on hosting and cloud services this year "indicating a growing reliance on external sources of infrastructure, application, management and security services". Analyst Gartner predicts that half of global enterprises using the cloud now will have gone all-in on it by 2021.According to Gartner, global spending on cloud services will reach $260bn this year up from $219.6bn. It's also growing at a faster rate than the analysts expected. But it's not entirely clear how much of that demand is coming from businesses that actually want to move to the cloud and how much is being created by vendors who now only offer cloud versions of their products (often because they are keen to move to away from selling one-off licences to selling potentially more lucrative and predictable cloud subscriptions).Predictions for cloud computing revenues to 2021 from 451 Research.What is Infrastructure-as-a-Service?Cloud computing can be broken down into three cloud computing models. Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) refers to the fundamental building blocks of computing that can be rented: physical or virtual servers, storage and networking. This is attractive to companies that want to build applications from the very ground up and want to control nearly all the elements themselves, but it does require firms to have the technical skills to be able to orchestrate services at that level. Research by Oracle found that two thirds of IaaS users said using online infrastructure makes it easier to innovate, had cut their time to deploy new applications and services and had significantly cut on-going maintenance costs. However, half said IaaS isn't secure enough for most critical data.What is Platform-as-a-Service?Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) is the next layer up -- as well as the underlying storage, networking, and virtual servers this will also include the tools and software that developers need to build applications on top of: that could include middleware, database management, operating systems, and development tools.What is Software-as-a-Service?What is Microsoft 365? Microsoft's most important subscription bundle, explainedMicrosoft 365 is becoming a centerpiece of Redmond's cloud strategy. Here's everything you need to know about what it is and how it's evolving.Read MoreSoftware-as-a-Service (SaaS) is the delivery of applications-as-a-service, probably the version of cloud computing that most people are used to on a day-to-day basis. The underlying hardware and operating system is irrelevant to the end user, who will access the service via a web browser or app; it is often bought on a per-seat or per-user basis.According to researchers IDC SaaS is -- and will remain -- the dominant cloud computing model in the medium term, accounting for two-thirds of all public cloud spending in 2017, which will only drop slightly to just under 60%   in 2021. SaaS spending is made up of applications and system infrastructure software, and IDC said that spending will be dominated by applications purchases, which will make up more than half of all public cloud spending through 2019. Customer relationship management (CRM) applications and enterprise resource management (ERM) applications will account for more than 60%   of all cloud applications spending through to 2021. The variety of applications delivered via SaaS is huge, from CRM such as Salesforce through to Microsoft's Office 365.Cloud computing benefitsThe exact benefits will vary according to the type of cloud service being used but, fundamentally, using cloud services means companies not having to buy or maintain their own computing infrastructure.No more buying servers, updating applications or operating systems, or decommissioning and disposing of hardware or software when it is out of date, as it is all taken care of by the supplier. For commodity applications, such as email, it can make sense to switch to a cloud provider, rather than rely on in-house skills. A company that specializes in running and securing these services is likely to have better skills and more experienced staff than a small business could afford to hire, so cloud services may be able to deliver a more secure and efficient service to end users.Using cloud services means companies can move faster on projects and test out concepts without lengthy procurement and big upfront costs, because firms only pay for the resources they consume. This concept of business agility is often mentioned by cloud advocates as a key benefit. The ability to spin up new services without the time and effort associated with traditional IT procurement should mean that is easier to get going with new applications faster. And if a new application turns out to be a wildly popular the elastic nature of the cloud means it is easier to scale it up fast.For a company with an application that has big peaks in usage, for example that is only used at a particular time of the week or year, it may make financial sense to have it hosted in the cloud, rather than have dedicated hardware and software laying idle for much of the time. Moving to a cloud hosted application for services like email or CRM could remove a burden on internal IT staff, and if such applications don't generate much competitive advantage, there will be little other impact. Moving to a services model also moves spending from capex to opex, which may be useful for some companies.Cloud computing advantages and disadvantagesCloud computing is not necessarily cheaper than other forms of computing, just as renting is not always cheaper than buying in the long term. If an application has a regular and predictable requirement for computing services it may be more economical to provide that service in-house.Some companies may be reluctant to host sensitive data in a service that is also used by rivals. Moving to a SaaS application may also mean you are using the same applications as a rival, which may make it hard to create any competitive advantage if that application is core to your business.While it may be easy to start using a new cloud application, migrating existing data or apps to the cloud may be much more complicated and expensive. And it seems there is now something of a shortage in cloud skills with staff with DevOps and multi-cloud monitoring and management knowledge in particularly short supply.In one recent report a significant proportion of experienced cloud users said that they thought upfront migration costs ultimately outweigh the long-term savings created by IaaS.And of course, you can only access your applications if you have an internet connection.What is cloud computing adoption doing to IT budgets?Cloud computing tends to shift spending from capital expenditure (CapEx) to operating expenditure (OpEx) as companies buy computing as a service rather than in the form of physical servers. This may allow companies to avoid large increases in IT spending which would traditionally be seen with new projects; using the cloud to make room in the budget may be easier than going to the CFO and looking for more money."CIOs are increasingly turning to cloud infrastructure and services in order to increase flexibility and relieve pressure on capital budgets," notes ZDNet's survey of IT budget predictions. Of course, this doesn't mean that cloud computing is always or necessarily cheaper that keeping applications in house; for applications with a predictable and stable demand for computing power may be cheaper (from a processing power point of view at least) to keep in-house.How do you build a business case for cloud computing?To build a business case for moving systems to the cloud you first need to understand what your existing infrastructure actually costs. There's a lot to factor in: obvious things like the cost of running a data centers, and extras such as leased lines. The cost of physical hardware -- servers and details of specifications like CPUs, cores and RAM, plus the cost of storage. You'll also need to calculate the cost of applications -- whether you plan to dump them, re-hosting them in the cloud unchanged, completely rebuilding them for the cloud or buying an entirely new SaaS package each option will have different cost implications. The cloud business case also needs to include people costs (often second only to the infrastructure costs) and more nebulous concepts like the benefit of being able to provide new services faster. Any cloud business case should also factor in the potential downsides, including the risk of being locked into one vendor for your tech infrastructure.Cloud computing adoptionIt's hard to get figures on how companies are adopting cloud services although the market is clearly growing rapidly. One set of research suggests that around 12%   of businesses consider themselves to be 'cloud-first' organisations, and about a third run some kind of workloads in the cloud -- while a quarter of firms insist they will never move on-demand.However, it may be that figures on adoption of cloud depend on who you talk to inside an organisation. Not all cloud spending will be driven centrally by the CIO: cloud services are relatively easy to sign up for, so business managers can start using them, and pay out of their own budget, without needing to inform the IT department. This can enable businesses to move faster but also can create security risks if the use of apps is not managed.Adoption will also vary by application: cloud-based email -- is much easier to adopt than a new finance system for example. Research by Spiceworks suggests that companies are planning to invest in cloud-based communications and collaboration tools and back-up and disaster recovery, but are less likely to be investing in supply chain management.What about cloud computing security?Certainly many companies remain concerned about the security of cloud services, although breaches of security are rare. How secure you consider cloud computing to be will largely depend on how secure your existing systems are. In-house systems managed by a team with many other things to worry about are likely to be more leaky than systems monitored by a cloud provider's engineers dedicated to protecting that infrastructure.However, concerns do remain about security, especially for companies moving their data between many cloud services, which has leading to growth in cloud security tools, which monitor data moving to and from the cloud and between cloud platforms. These tools can identify fraudulent use of data in the cloud, unauthorised downloads, and malware.  There is a financial and performance impact however: these tools can reduce the return on investment of the cloud by five to 10%  , and impact performance by five to 15%  . The country of origin of cloud services is also worrying some organisations (see Is geography irrelevant when it comes to cloud computing? below)What is public cloud?Public cloud is the classic cloud computing model, where users can access a large pool of computing power over the internet (whether that is IaaS, PaaS, or SaaS). One of the significant benefits here is the ability to rapidly scale a service. The cloud computing suppliers have vast amounts of computing power, which they share out between a large number of customers -- the 'multi-tenant' architecture. Their huge scale means they have enough spare capacity that they can easily cope if any particular customer needs more resources, which is why it is often used for less-sensitive applications that demand a varying amount of resources.What is private cloud?Private cloud allows organizations to benefit from the some of the advantages of public cloud -- but without the concerns about relinquishing control over data and services, because it is tucked away behind the corporate firewall. Companies can control exactly where their data is being held and can build the infrastructure in a way they want -- largely for IaaS or PaaS projects -- to give developers access to a pool of computing power that scales on-demand without putting security at risk. However, that additional security comes at a cost, as few companies will have the scale of AWS, Microsoft or Google, which means they will not be able to create the same economies of scale. Still, for companies that require additional security, private cloud may be a useful stepping stone, helping them to understand cloud services or rebuild internal applications for the cloud, before shifting them into the public cloud.The Art Of The Hybrid CloudCloud computing is insatiably gobbling up more of the backend services that power businesses. But, some companies have apps with privacy, security, and regulatory demands that preclude the cloud. Here's how to find the right mix of public cloud and private cloud.Read MoreWhat is hybrid cloud?Hybrid cloud is perhaps where everyone is in reality: a bit of this, a bit of that. Some data in the public cloud, some projects in private cloud, multiple vendors and different levels of cloud usage. According to research by TechRepublic, the main reasons for choosing hybrid cloud include disaster recovery planning and the desire to avoid hardware costs when expanding their existing data center.Cloud computing migration costsFor start-ups who plan to run all their systems in the cloud getting started is pretty simple. But the majority of companies it is not so simple: with existing applications and data they need to work out which systems are best left running as they, and which to start moving them to cloud infrastructure. This is a potentially risky and expensive move, and migrating to the cloud could cost companies more if they underestimate the scale of such projects.A survey of 500 businesses that were early cloud adopters found that the need to rewrite applications to optimise them for the cloud was one of the biggest costs, especially if the apps were complex or customised. A third of those surveyed said cited high fees for passing data between systems as a challenge in moving their mission-critical applications.The report by Forrester also found that the skills required for migration are both difficult and expensive to find -- and that even when organisations could find the right people they risked them being stolen away by cloud computing vendors with deep pockets. One third of those surveyed said their software database license costs drastically increased if they moved applications.Beyond this the majority also remained worried about the performance of critical apps and one in three cited this as a reason for not moving some critical applications.Is geography irrelevant when it comes to cloud computing?Actually it turns out that is where the cloud really does matter; indeed geopolitics is forcing significant changes on cloud computing user and vendors. Firstly, there is the issue of latency: if the application is coming from a data center on the other side of the planet, or on the other side of a congested network, then you may find it sluggish compared to a local connection. That's the latency problem.Secondly, there is the issue of data sovereignty. Many companies -- particularly in Europe -- have to worry about where their data is being processed and stored. European companies are worried that, for example, if their customer data is being stored in data centers in the US or (owned by US companies) it could be accessed by US law enforcement. As a result the big cloud vendors have been building out a regional data center network so that organizations can keep their data in their own region.In Germany, Microsoft has gone one step further, offering its Azure cloud services from two data centers, which have been set up to make it much harder for US authorities -- and others -- to demand access to the customer data stored there. The customer data in the data centers is under the control of an independent German company which acts as a "data trustee", and Microsoft cannot access data at the sites without the permission of customers or the data trustee. Expect to see cloud vendors opening more data centers around the world to cater to customers with requirements to keep data in specific locations.And regulation of cloud computing varies widely elsewhere across the world: for example AWS recently sold a chunk of its cloud infrastructure in China to its local partner because of China's strict tech regulations. Since then AWS has opened a second China (Ningxia) Region, operated by Ningxia Western Cloud Data Technology.Cloud security is another issue; the UK government's cyber security agency has warned that government agencies need to consider the country of origin when it comes to adding cloud services into their supply chains. While it was warning about antivirus software in particular, the issue is the same for other types of services too.Consultants Accenture have warned that 'digital fragmentation' is the result as different countries enact legislation to protect privacy and improve cyber security. While the aims of the laws is laudable, the impact is to raise costs for businesses. Three quarters of the 400 CIOs and CTOs surveyed expect to exit a geographic market, delay their market-entry plans or abandon market-entry plans in the next three years as a result of increased barriers to globalization.More than half of the business leaders surveyed believe that the increasing barriers to globalization will compromise their ability to: use or provide cloud-based services (cited by 54%   of respondents, versus 14%   that disagree); use or provide data and analytics services across national markets (54%   versus 15%  ); and operate effectively across different national IT standards (58%   versus 18%).Over half said these increasing barriers will force their companies to rethink their: global IT architectures (cited by 60%) physical IT location strategy (52%); cybersecurity strategy and capabilities (51%); relationship with local and global IT suppliers (50%); and geographic strategy for IT talent (50%).AWS: The complete business guide to Amazon's cloud servicesA few brilliant strokes of ingenuity, combined with a large dose of capitalism, made the e-retailer into the world’s cloud services leader.Read MoreWhat is a cloud computing region? What is a cloud computing availability zone?Cloud computing services are operated from giant datacenters around the world. AWS divides this up by 'regions' and 'availability zones'. Each AWS region is a separate geographic area, like EU (London) or US West (Oregon), which AWS then further subdivides into what it calls availability zones (AZs). An AZ is composed of one or more datacenters that are far enough apart that in theory a single disaster won't take both offline, but close enough together for business continuity applications that require rapid failover. Each AZ has multiple internet connections and power connections to multiple grids: AWS has over 50 AZs.Google uses a similar model, dividing its cloud computing resources into regions which are then subdivided into zones, which include one or more datacenters from which customers can run their services. It currently has 15 regions made up of 44 zones: Google recommends customers deploy applications across multiple zones and regions to help protect against unexpected failures.Microsoft Azure divides its resources slightly differently. It offers regions which it describes as is a "set of datacentres deployed within a latency-defined perimeter and connected through a dedicated regional low-latency network". It also offers 'geographies' typically containing two or more regions, that can be used by customers with specific data-residency and compliance needs "to keep their data and apps close". It also offers availability zones made up of one or more data centres equipped with independent power, cooling and networking.Cloud computing and power usageThose data centers are also sucking up a huge amount of power: for example Microsoft recently struck a deal with GE to buy all of the output from its new 37-megawatt wind farm in Ireland for the next 15 years in order to power its cloud data centers. Ireland said it now expects data centers to account for 15%   of total energy demand by 2026, up from less than two percent back in 2015.Which are the big cloud computing companies?When it comes to IaaS and PaaS there are really only a few giant cloud providers. Leading the way is Amazon Web Services, and then the following pack of Microsoft's Azure, Google, IBM, and Alibaba. While the following pack might be growing fast, their combined revenues are still less than those of AWS, according to data from the Synergy Research Group.Analysts 451 Research said that for many companies the strategy will be to use AWS and one other cloud provider, a policy they describe as AWS + 1. These big players will dominate the delivery of cloud services: Gartner said two thirds of the spending on cloud computing services will go through the top 10 public cloud providers through to 2021.It's also worth noting that while all these companies are selling cloud services, they have different strengths and priorities. AWS is particularly strong in IaaS and PaaS, but has designs on moving up towards databases. Microsoft in contrast has a particular emphasis on SaaS thanks to Office 365 and its other software largely aimed at end user productivity, but is also trying to rapidly grow its IaaS and Paas offering through Azure.Google Cloud Platform (GCP) (which also offers office productivity tools) is somewhere between the two. IBM and Oracle's cloud businesses are also made up of a combination of Saas and more infrastructure based offerings.There are vast numbers of companies who have are offering applications through the cloud using a SaaS model. Salesforce is probably the best known of these.AWS, Google Cloud Platform and Microsoft Azure -- what is the difference?The cloud giants have different strengths. While AWS and Microsoft's commercial cloud businesses are about the same size, Microsoft includes Office 365 in its figures. IBM, Oracle, Google and Alibaba all have sizeable cloud businesses too.What Google Cloud Platform is and why you’d use itThe challenger in any competitive market has greater incentive to produce sharper and more customer-focused products and services. Google has to make a bigger splash, and for a company that isn’t known for being flashy, it’s not doing a half-bad job.Read MoreIncreasingly the major cloud computing vendors are attempting to differentiate according to the services that they offer, especially if they can't compete with AWS and Microsoft in terms of scale. Google for example is promoting its expertise around artificial intelligence; Alibaba wants to attract customers who are interested in learning from its retail know-how. In a world where most companies will use at least one cloud provider and usually many more, IBM wants to position itself as the company that can manage all these multiple clouds. Meanwhile AWS is pitching itself as the platform for builders, which is its new take on developers.Cloud computing price warsThe cost of some cloud computing services -- particularly virtual machines --  has been falling steadily thanks to continued competition between these big players. There is some evidence that the price cuts may spread to other services like storage and databases, as cloud vendors want to  win the big workloads that are moving out of enterprise datacenters and  into the cloud. That's likely to be good news for customers and prices could still fall further, as there remains a hefty margin in even the most commodity areas of cloud infrastructure services, like provision of virtual machines.What is the future of cloud computing?Cloud computing is still at a relatively early stage of adoption, despite its long history. Many companies are still considering which apps to move and when. However, usage is only likely to climb as organisations get more comfortable with the idea of their data being somewhere other than a server in the basement. We're still relatively early into cloud adoption -- some estimates suggest that only 10%   of the workloads that could be move have actually been transferred across. Those are the easy ones where the economics are hard for CIOs to argue with.For the rest of the enterprise computing portfolio the economics of moving to the cloud may be less clear cut. As a result cloud computing vendors are increasingly pushing cloud computing as an agent of digital transformation instead of focusing simply on cost. Moving to the cloud can help companies rethink business processes and accelerate business change, goes the argument, by helping to break down data and organisational silos. Some companies that need to boost momentum around their digital transformation programmes may find this argument appealing; others may find enthusiasm for the cloud waning as the costs of making the switch add up.Cloud computing case studiesThere are plenty of examples of organisations deciding to go down the cloud computing route: here are a few examples of recent announcements.The Art of the Hybrid CloudCloud computing is gobbling up more of the services that power businesses. But, some have privacy, security, and regulatory demands that preclude the public cloud. Here's how to find the right mix.Cloud security and IoT are the new peanut butter and jelly [TechRepublic Premium]For enterprises using cloud services with IoT, it's critical to adhere to as many security practices as possible. Experts weigh in on the best approaches to take.Public cloud, private cloud, or hybrid cloud: What's the difference?Trying to understand and articulate the differences between public, private, and hybrid cloud? Here's a quick breakdown.By
               
Steve Ranger

            
                    
        
                                        |            December 13, 2018 -- 12:24 GMT (17:54 IST)
        
                                                                                    | Topic: CloudSecurityPlease don't fall for these surprisingly badly written phishing scam emailsEnterprise SoftwareJava or C++, Full stack or Front end: The programming languages and developer jobs that pay you the most5GNow 5G has to prove that it's really worth the fight - and the fallout5GThe big 5G decision: Huawei gets role in UK network roll-outs, despite US pressurePlease review our terms of service to complete your newsletter subscription.By registering, you agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices outlined in the Privacy Policy.You will also receive a complimentary subscription to the ZDNet's Tech Update Today and ZDNet Announcement newsletters. You may unsubscribe from these newsletters at any time.You agree to receive updates, alerts, and promotions from the CBS family of companies - including ZDNet’s Tech Update Today and ZDNet Announcement newsletters. You may unsubscribe at any time.By signing up, you agree to receive the selected newsletter(s) which you may unsubscribe from at any time. You also agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge the data collection and usage practices outlined in our Privacy Policy.Accenture buys Workday practice from Sierra-CedarThe company said the purchase will broaden its integration services for small and medium-sized education and government organizations.IBM's big bet on cloud computing, AI and open source needs to pay off soonAlthough the IBM has underwhelmed in recent years, outgoing CEO Ginni Rometty may have planted the seeds for future prosperity.ServiceNow aims to court CEOs, expand use cases beyond ITCEO Bill McDermott said he has all he needs to expand ServiceNow into a company producing $10 billion in revenue a year.Top cloud providers in 2020: AWS, Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud, hybrid, SaaS playersThe
																																																								cloud
																																																								computing
																																																								race
																																																								in
																																																								2020
																																																								will
																																																								have
																																																								a
																																																								definite
																																																								multi-cloud
																																																								spin.
																																																								Here's
																																																								a
																																																								look
																																																								at
																																																								how
																																																								the
																																																								cloud
																																																								leaders
																																																								stack
																																																								up,
																																																								the
																																																								hybrid
																																																								market,
																																																								and
																																																								the
																																																								SaaS
																																																								players
																																																								that
																																																								run
																																																								your
																																																								company
																																																																																																																																																																																														...IBM reshuffles: Krishna CEO, Whitehurst president, Rometty to retireArvind Krishna is noted as a key architect of the company's Red Hat acquisition.Dear Microsoft: It's time to disclose some real sales figures for AzureMicrosoft
																																																								delivered
																																																								stellar
																																																								fiscal
																																																								second
																																																								quarter
																																																								results
																																																								and
																																																								has
																																																								cloud
																																																								momentum,
																																																								but
																																																								we
																																																								know
																																																								about
																																																								as
																																																								much
																																																								about
																																																								Azure
																																																								sales
																																																								as
																																																								we
																																																								did
																																																								yesterday.
																																																								In
																																																								other
																																																								words,
																																																								we
																																																								know
																																																								nothing.
																																											...AWS brings in nearly $10b in sales for Amazon in Q4, hits $40b annual run rateAmazon saw the growth rate of its giant cloud business decelerate slightly in Q4, but AWS continued to rake in the bulk of Amazon's operating income.Here's how Office 365 users can get a custom email address -- without corporate headachesWant
																																																								the
																																																								credibility
																																																								that
																																																								comes
																																																								with
																																																								a
																																																								custom
																																																								email
																																																								domain
																																																								instead
																																																								of
																																																								a
																																																								generic
																																																								gmail.com
																																																								or
																																																								outlook.com
																																																								address?
																																																								Microsoft
																																																								has
																																																								quietly
																																																								rolled
																																																								out
																																																								that
																																																								option
																																																								for
																																																								its
																																																								Office
																																																								365
																																																								Home
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																								...Microsoft to show off HoloLens, edge computing services at Mobile World Congress 2020Microsoft
																																																								took
																																																								the
																																																								wraps
																																																								off
																																																								HoloLens
																																																								2
																																																								at
																																																								MWC
																																																								2019.
																																																								This
																																																								year,
																																																								HoloLens,
																																																								AI,
																																																								edge
																																																								computing
																																																								and
																																																								autonomous
																																																								computing
																																																								all
																																																								look
																																																								to
																																																								be
																																																								on
																																																								the
																																																								MWC
																																																								2020
																																																								agenda.
																																											...© 2020 CBS Interactive. All rights reserved.
                    Privacy Policy |
                    Cookies |
                    Ad Choice |
                    Advertise |
                    Terms of Use |
                    Mobile User AgreementBy Eric KnorrEditor in Chief, 
								
									
								












InfoWorld |Cloud computing has two meanings. The most common refers to running workloads remotely over the internet in a commercial provider’s data center, also known as the “public cloud” model. Popular public cloud offerings—such as Amazon Web Services (AWS), Salesforce’s CRM system, and Microsoft Azure—all exemplify this familiar notion of cloud computing. Today, most businesses take a multicloud approach, which simply means they use more than one public cloud service.The second meaning of cloud computing describes how it works: a virtualized pool of resources, from raw compute power to application functionality, available on demand. When customers procure cloud services, the provider fulfills those requests using advanced automation rather than manual provisioning. The key advantage is agility: the ability to apply abstracted compute, storage, and network resources to workloads as needed and tap into an abundance of prebuilt services.The public cloud lets customers gain new capabilities without investing in new hardware or software. Instead, they pay their cloud provider a subscription fee or pay for only the resources they use. Simply by filling in web forms, users can set up accounts and spin up virtual machines or provision new applications. More users or computing resources can be added on the fly—the latter in real time as workloads demand those resources thanks to a feature known as autoscaling.BrandPost
 Sponsored by HPEHPE GreenLake: Balance IT Flexibility, Cost, and Control with Accelerated Outcomes on Your TermsBusiness demands flexibility, but IT needs control. The answer? Consume IT on your terms.The array of available cloud computing services is vast, but most fall into one of the following categories.This type of public cloud computing delivers applications over the internet through the browser. The most popular SaaS applications for business can be found in Google’s G Suite and Microsoft’s Office 365; among enterprise applications, Salesforce leads the pack. But virtually all enterprise applications, including ERP suites from Oracle and SAP, have adopted the SaaS model. Typically, SaaS applications offer extensive configuration options as well as development environments that enable customers to code their own modifications and additions.At a basic level, IaaS public cloud providers offer storage and compute services on a pay-per-use basis. But the full array of services offered by all major public cloud providers is staggering: highly scalable databases, virtual private networks, big data analytics, developer tools, machine learning, application monitoring, and so on. Amazon Web Services was the first IaaS provider and remains the leader, followed byMicrosoft Azure, Google Cloud Platform, and IBM Cloud.PaaS provides sets of services and workflows that specifically target developers, who can use shared tools, processes, and APIs to accelerate the development, testing, and deployment of applications. Salesforce’s Heroku and Force.com are popular public cloud PaaS offerings; Pivotal’s Cloud Foundry and Red Hat’s OpenShift can be deployed on premises or accessed through the major public clouds. For enterprises, PaaS can ensure that developers have ready access to resources, follow certain processes, and use only a specific array of services, while operators maintain the underlying infrastructure.FaaS, the cloud version of serverless computing, adds another layer of abstraction to PaaS, so that developers are completely insulated from everything in the stack below their code. Instead of futzing with virtual servers, containers, and application runtimes, they upload narrowly functional blocks of code, and set them to be triggered by a certain event (such as a form submission or uploaded file). All the major clouds offer FaaS on top of IaaS: AWS Lambda, Azure Functions, Google Cloud Functions, and IBM OpenWhisk. A special benefit of FaaS applications is that they consume no IaaS resources until an event occurs, reducing pay-per-use fees.A private cloud downsizes the technologies used to run IaaS public clouds into software that can be deployed and operated in a customer’s data center. As with a public cloud, internal customers can provision their own virtual resources to build, test, and run applications, with metering to charge back departments for resource consumption. For administrators, the private cloud amounts to the ultimate in data center automation, minimizing manual provisioning and management. VMware’s Software Defined Data Center stack is the most popular commercial private cloud software, while OpenStack is the open source leader.Note, however, that the private cloud does not fully conform to the definition of cloud computing. Cloud computing is a service. A private cloud demands that an organization build and maintain its own underlying cloud infrastructure; only internal usersof a private cloud experience it as a cloud computing service.A hybrid cloud is the integration of a private cloud with a public cloud. At its most developed, the hybrid cloud involves creating parallel environments in which applications can move easily between private and public clouds. In other instances, databases may stay in the customer data center and integrate with public cloud applications—or virtualized data center workloads may be replicated to the cloud during times of peak demand. The types of integrations between private and public cloud vary widely, but they must be extensive to earn a hybrid cloud designation.In this 60-second video, learn how the cloud-native approach is changing the way enterprises structure their technologies, from Craig McLuckie, founder and CEO of Heptio, and one of the inventors of open-source system Kubernetes.Just as SaaS delivers applications to users over the internet, public APIs offer developers application functionality that can be accessed programmatically. For example, in building web applications, developers often tap into Google Maps’s API to provide driving directions; to integrate with social media, developers may call upon APIs maintained by Twitter, Facebook, or LinkedIn. Twilio has built a successful business dedicated to delivering telephony and messaging services via public APIs. Ultimately, any business can provision its own public APIs to enable customers to consume data or access application functionality.Data integration is a key issue for any sizeable company, but particularly for those that adopt SaaS at scale. iPaaS providers typically offer prebuilt connectors for sharing data among popular SaaS applications and on-premises enterprise applications, though providers may focus more or less on B-to-B and e-commerce integrations, cloud integrations, or traditional SOA-style integrations. iPaaS offerings in the cloud from such providers as Dell Boomi, Informatica, MuleSoft, and SnapLogic also let users implement data mapping, transformations, and workflows as part of the integration-building process.The most difficult security issue related to cloud computing is the management of user identity and its associated rights and permissions across private data centers and pubic cloud sites. IDaaS providers maintain cloud-based user profiles that authenticate users and enable access to resources or applications based on security policies, user groups, and individual privileges. The ability to integrate with various directory services (Active Directory, LDAP, etc.) and provide is essential. Okta is the clear leader in cloud-based IDaaS; CA, Centrify, IBM, Microsoft, Oracle, and Ping provide both on-premises and cloud solutions.Collaboration solutions such as Slack, Microsoft Teams, and HipChat have become vital messaging platforms that enable groups to communicate and work together effectively. Basically, these solutions are relatively simple SaaS applications that support chat-style messaging along with file sharing and audio or video communication. Most offer APIs to facilitate integrations with other systems and enable third-party developers to create and share add-ins that augment functionality.Key providers in such industries as financial services, health care, retail, life sciences, and manufacturing provide PaaS clouds to enable customers to build vertical applications that tap into industry-specific, API-accessible services. Vertical clouds can dramatically reduce the time to market for vertical applications and accelerate domain-specific B-to-B integrations. Most vertical clouds are built with the intent of nurturing partner ecosystems.The most widely accepted definition of cloud computing means that you run your workloads on someone else’s servers, but this is not the same as outsourcing. Virtual cloud resources and even SaaS applications must be configured and maintained by the customer. Consider these factors when planning a cloud initiative.Objections to the public cloud generally begin with cloud security, although the major public clouds have proven themselves much less susceptible to attack than the average enterprise data center.Of greater concern is the integration of security policy and identity management between customers and public cloud providers. In addition, government regulation may forbid customers from allowing sensitive data off premises. Other concerns include the risk of outages and the long-term operational costs of public cloud services.The bar to qualify as a multicloud adopter is low: A customer just needs to use more than one public cloud service. However, depending on the number and variety of cloud services involved, managing multiple clouds can become quite complex from both a cost optimization and technology perspective.In some cases, customers subscribe to multiple cloud service simply to avoid dependence on a single provider. A more sophisticated approach is to select public clouds based on the unique services they offer and, in some cases, integrate them. For example, developers might want to use Google’s TensorFlow machine learning service on Google Cloud Platform to build machine-learning-enabled applications, but prefer Jenkins hosted on the CloudBees platform for continuous integration.To control costs and reduce management overhead, some customers opt for cloud management platforms (CMPs) and/or cloud service brokers (CSBs), which let you manage multiple clouds as if they were one cloud. The problem is that these solutions tend to limit customers to such common-denominator services as storage and compute, ignoring the panoply of services that make each cloud unique.You often see edge computing described as an alternative to cloud computing. But it is not. Edge computing is about moving local computing to local devices in a highy distributed system, typically as a layer around a cloud computing core. There is typically a cloud involved to orchestrate all the devices and take in their data, then analyze it or otherwise act on it.The cloud’s main appeal is to reduce the time to market of applications that need to scale dynamically. Increasingly, however, developers are drawn to the cloud by the abundance of advanced new services that can be incorporated into applications, from machine learning to internet of things (IoT) connectivity.Copyright © 2020 IDG Communications, Inc.Cloud computing is the on-demand delivery of IT resources over the Internet with pay-as-you-go pricing. Instead of buying, owning, and maintaining physical data centers and servers, you can access technology services, such as computing power, storage, and databases, on an as-needed basis from a cloud provider like Amazon Web Services (AWS).Cloud computing is the on-demand delivery of IT resources over the Internet with pay-as-you-go pricing. Instead of buying, owning, and maintaining physical data centers and servers, you can access technology services, such as computing power, storage, and databases, on an as-needed basis from a cloud provider like Amazon Web Services (AWS).Organizations of every type, size, and industry are using the cloud for a wide variety of use cases, such as data backup, disaster recovery, email, virtual desktops, software development and testing, big data analytics, and customer-facing web applications. For example, healthcare companies are using the cloud to develop more personalized treatments for patients. Financial services companies are using the cloud to power real-time fraud detection and prevention. And video game makers are using the cloud to deliver online games to millions of players around the world.The cloud gives you easy access to a broad range of technologies so that you can innovate faster and build nearly anything that you can imagine. You can quickly spin up resources as you need them–from infrastructure services, such as compute, storage, and databases, to Internet of Things, machine learning, data lakes and analytics, and much more.You can deploy technology services in a matter of minutes, and get from idea to implementation several orders of magnitude faster than before. This gives you the freedom to experiment, test new ideas to differentiate customer experiences, and transform your business.The cloud gives you easy access to a broad range of technologies so that you can innovate faster and build nearly anything that you can imagine. You can quickly spin up resources as you need them–from infrastructure services, such as compute, storage, and databases, to Internet of Things, machine learning, data lakes and analytics, and much more.You can deploy technology services in a matter of minutes, and get from idea to implementation several orders of magnitude faster than before. This gives you the freedom to experiment, test new ideas to differentiate customer experiences, and transform your business.With cloud computing, you don’t have to over-provision resources up front to handle peak levels of business activity in the future. Instead, you provision the amount of resources that you actually need. You can scale these resources up or down to instantly to grow and shrink capacity as your business needs change.With cloud computing, you don’t have to over-provision resources up front to handle peak levels of business activity in the future. Instead, you provision the amount of resources that you actually need. You can scale these resources up or down to instantly to grow and shrink capacity as your business needs change.The cloud allows you to trade capital expenses (such as data centers and physical servers) for variable expenses, and only pay for IT as you consume it. Plus, the variable expenses are much lower than what you would pay to do it yourself because of the economies of scale.The cloud allows you to trade capital expenses (such as data centers and physical servers) for variable expenses, and only pay for IT as you consume it. Plus, the variable expenses are much lower than what you would pay to do it yourself because of the economies of scale.With the cloud, you can expand to new geographic regions and deploy globally in minutes. For example, AWS has infrastructure all over the world, so you can deploy your application in multiple physical locations with just a few clicks. Putting applications in closer proximity to end users reduces latency and improves their experience.With the cloud, you can expand to new geographic regions and deploy globally in minutes. For example, AWS has infrastructure all over the world, so you can deploy your application in multiple physical locations with just a few clicks. Putting applications in closer proximity to end users reduces latency and improves their experience.IaaS contains the basic building blocks for cloud IT. It typically provides access to networking features, computers (virtual or on dedicated hardware), and data storage space. IaaS gives you the highest level of flexibility and management control over your IT resources. It is most similar to the existing IT resources with which many IT departments and developers are familiar.IaaS contains the basic building blocks for cloud IT. It typically provides access to networking features, computers (virtual or on dedicated hardware), and data storage space. IaaS gives you the highest level of flexibility and management control over your IT resources. It is most similar to the existing IT resources with which many IT departments and developers are familiar.PaaS removes the need for you to manage underlying infrastructure (usually hardware and operating systems), and allows you to focus on the deployment and management of your applications. This helps you be more efficient as you don’t need to worry about resource procurement, capacity planning, software maintenance, patching, or any of the other undifferentiated heavy lifting involved in running your application.PaaS removes the need for you to manage underlying infrastructure (usually hardware and operating systems), and allows you to focus on the deployment and management of your applications. This helps you be more efficient as you don’t need to worry about resource procurement, capacity planning, software maintenance, patching, or any of the other undifferentiated heavy lifting involved in running your application.SaaS provides you with a complete product that is run and managed by the service provider. In most cases, people referring to SaaS are referring to end-user applications (such as web-based email). With a SaaS offering, you don’t have to think about how the service is maintained or how the underlying infrastructure is managed. You only need to think about how you will use that particular software.SaaS provides you with a complete product that is run and managed by the service provider. In most cases, people referring to SaaS are referring to end-user applications (such as web-based email). With a SaaS offering, you don’t have to think about how the service is maintained or how the underlying infrastructure is managed. You only need to think about how you will use that particular software.Live Nation is the global leader in live entertainment that produces concerts, sells tickets, and connects brands to music. In 2016 Live Nation announced it was moving its global IT infrastructure to AWS in an effort to deliver better experiences to its customers.The company moved 118 applications and 668 servers to AWS within 17 months without adding headcount or budget.By moving to AWS, Live Nation has moved from troubleshooting hardware to delivering on innovative ideas that serve its customers better. Since implementation, Live Nation realized a 58-percent reduction in total cost of ownership, supported 10 times as many projects with the same staff, and saw a 99-percent improvement in application availability.Peloton was founded in 2012 by a team of five people, and launched on Kickstarter in 2013. The company was born on AWS and delivered its first bike in 2014. In seven years, Peloton has grown to more than 1.4 million members who collectively have ridden hundreds of million of virtual miles.Peloton uses AWS to power the leaderboard in its live-streamed and on-demand fitness classes, and it requires high elasticity, low latency, and real-time processing to deliver customizable rider data for the community of more than 1.4 million members riding together from their homes.Using AWS, Peloton can quickly test and launch new features to improve the unique experience of home-based community fitness.GE Healthcare saw an opportunity to improve patient outcomes by helping radiologists quickly identify critical conditions*.*510(k) pending at US FDA. Not available for sales in the United States.GE Healthcare uses AWS and Amazon SageMaker to ingest data, store data compliantly, orchestrate curation work across teams, and build machine-learning algorithms.GE Healthcare reduced the time to train its machine-learning models from days to hours, allowing it to deploy models more quickly and continually improve patient care.Epic Games has been using AWS since 2012 and is now all in on the AWS Cloud, running its worldwide game-server fleet, backend platform systems, databases, websites, analytics pipeline, and processing systems on AWS.In 2017, Epic Games launched Fortnite, a cross-platform, multiplayer game that became an overnight sensation. In its first year, Fortnite’s user base grew by more than 100 times to 200 million players worldwide.AWS is integral to the success of Fortnite. Using AWS, Epic Games hosts in-game events with hundreds of millions of invited users without worrying about capacity, ingests 125 million events per minute into its analytics pipeline, and handles data-warehouse growth of more than 5 PB per month.Using AWS, Epic Games is always improving the experience of its players and offering new, exciting games and game elements. The company plans to expand its use of AWS services in the future, including machine learning and containerized services.Matson built a flagship mobile application for global container tracking that allows customers to perform real-time tracking of their freight shipments. Other valuable features in the application include interactive vessel schedule searching, location-based port map lookups, and live gate-camera feeds.All mobile devices access AWS via Amazon API Gateway. This provides highly available edge located endpoints for access into resources within Matson's existing virtual private clouds.The AWS Lambda functions are designed using the microservices pattern and are modeled around specific ocean-based business contexts, such as shipment tracking and vessel schedules.Amazon DynamoDB manages configuration as well as user-feedback configuration and user-feedback notifications sent from mobile devices. DynamoDB Streams provides real-time notifications to Matson's customer service team.Matson's customers rely on accurate, up-to-the-minute container tracking and vessel status information. Monitoring and alerting of system events is achieved by using Amazon CloudWatch, Amazon SNS, Amazon SES, AWS Lambda, and CloudWatch Logs.Matson can now offer customers an end-to-end serverless application to help track their shipments, and has no infrastructure to maintain.BP's IT organization manages SAP applications used by thousands of employees worldwide for supply chain, procurement, finance, and more.To improve speed and gain cost agility, BP used Amazon EC2 to migrate these core business apps to the cloud. In addition, the team built EC2 X1 instances to increase scale and to power their real-time analytics.The team can now stand up systems on demand in hours instead of weeks or months. BP is seeing performance increases across the board, including a 40 percent speed improvement for the Lubricants ERP system.As part of its cloud migration, BP reset its security standards using AWS Config, AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM), Amazon CloudWatch, and AWS Trusted Advisor. These new standards helped BP to develop a secure framework for operating its IT organization.AWS has more services, and more features within those services, than any other cloud provider, including compute, storage, databases, networking, data lakes and analytics, machine learning and artificial intelligence, IoT, security, and much more.AWS has more services, and more features within those services, than any other cloud provider, including compute, storage, databases, networking, data lakes and analytics, machine learning and artificial intelligence, IoT, security, and much more.AWS offers a pay-as-you-go approach for pricing.  Pricing for each service is unique.AWS has over 175 fully featured services for a wide range of technologies, industries, and use cases.AWS has the most extensive, reliable, and secure global cloud infrastructure.Cloud computing is the delivery of different services through the Internet. These resources include tools and applications like data storage, servers, databases, networking, and software.Rather than keeping files on a proprietary hard drive or local storage device, cloud-based storage makes it possible to save them to a remote database. As long as an electronic device has access to the web, it has access to the data and the software programs to run it.Cloud computing is a popular option for people and businesses for a number of reasons including cost savings, increased productivity, speed and efficiency, performance, and security.Cloud computing is named as such because the information being accessed is found remotely in the cloud or a virtual space. Companies that provide cloud services enable users to store files and applications on remote servers and then access all the data via the Internet. This means the user is not required to be in a specific place to gain access to it, allowing the user to work remotely.Cloud computing takes all the heavy lifting involved in crunching and processing data away from the device you carry around or sit and work at. It also moves all of that work to huge computer clusters far away in cyberspace. The Internet becomes the cloud, and voilà—your data, work, and applications are available from any device with which you can connect to the Internet, anywhere in the world.Cloud computing can be both public and private. Public cloud services provide their services over the Internet for a fee. Private cloud services, on the other hand, only provide services to a certain number of people. These services are a system of networks that supply hosted services. There is also a hybrid option, which combines elements of both the public and private services.Regardless of the kind of service, cloud computing services provide users with a series of functions including:Cloud computing is still a fairly new service but is being used by a number of different organizations from big corporations to small businesses, nonprofits to government agencies, and even individual consumers.There are various types of clouds, each of which is different from the other. Public clouds provide their services on servers and storage on the Internet. These are operated by third-party companies, who handle and control all the hardware, software, and the general infrastructure. Clients access services through accounts that can be accessed by just about anyone.Private clouds are reserved for specific clientele, usually one business or organization. The firm's data service center may host the cloud computing service. Many private cloud computing services are provided on a private network.Hybrid clouds are, as the name implies, a combination of both public and private services. This type of model allows the user more flexibility and helps optimize the user's infrastructure and security.Newer forms of cloud computing services include the community cloud, the big data cloud, and the multicloud.Cloud computing is not a single piece of technology like a microchip or a cellphone. Rather, it's a system primarily comprised of three services: software-as-a-service (SaaS), infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS), and platform-as-a-service (PaaS).Cloud-based software offers companies from all sectors a number of benefits, including the ability to use software from any device either via a native app or a browser. As a result, users can carry their files and settings over to other devices in a completely seamless manner.Cloud computing is far more than just accessing files on multiple devices. Thanks to cloud computing services, users can check their email on any computer and even store files using services such as Dropbox and Google Drive. Cloud computing services also make it possible for users to back up their music, files, and photos, ensuring those files are immediately available in the event of a hard drive crash.It also offers big businesses huge cost-saving potential. Before the cloud became a viable alternative, companies were required to purchase, construct, and maintain costly information management technology and infrastructure. Companies can swap costly server centers and IT departments for fast Internet connections, where employees interact with the cloud online to complete their tasks.The cloud structure allows individuals to save storage space on their desktops or laptops. It also lets users upgrade software more quickly because software companies can offer their products via the web rather than through more traditional, tangible methods involving discs or flash drives. For example, Adobe customers can access applications in its Creative Suite through an Internet-based subscription. This allows users to download new versions and fixes to their programs easily.With all of the speed, efficiencies, and innovations that come with cloud computing, there are, naturally, risks.Security has always been a big concern with the cloud especially when it comes to sensitive medical records and financial information. While regulations force cloud computing services to shore up their security and compliance measures, it remains an ongoing issue. Encryption protects vital information, but if that encryption key is lost, the data disappears.Servers maintained by cloud computing companies may fall victim to natural disasters, internal bugs, and power outages, too. The geographical reach of cloud computing cuts both ways: A blackout in California could paralyze users in New York, and a firm in Texas could lose its data if something causes its Maine-based provider to crash.As with any technology, there is a learning curve for both employees and managers. But with many individuals accessing and manipulating information through a single portal, inadvertent mistakes can transfer across an entire system.Businesses can employ cloud computing in different ways. Some users maintain all apps and data on the cloud, while others use a hybrid model, keeping certain apps and data on private servers and others on the cloud.When it comes to providing services, the big players in the corporate computing sphere include:Amazon Web Services is 100% public and includes a pay-as-you-go, outsourced model. Once you’re on the platform you can sign up for apps and additional services. Microsoft Azure allows clients to keep some data at their own sites. Meanwhile, Aliyun is a subsidiary of the Alibaba Group.Small BusinessSectors & Industries AnalysisSectors & Industries AnalysisStocksCareer AdviceIPOsIBMExplore cloud computing and discover what it can bring to your enterpriseCloud computing, often referred to as simply “the cloud,” is the delivery of on-demand computing resources — everything from applications to data centers — over the internet on a pay-for-use basis.Cloud-based applications — or software as a service — run on distant computers “in the cloud” that are owned and operated by others and that connect to users’ computers via the internet and, usually, a web browser.The benefits of SaaSSoftware as a servicePlatform as a service provides a cloud-based environment with everything required to support the complete lifecycle of building and delivering web-based (cloud) applications — without the cost and complexity of buying and managing the underlying hardware, software, provisioning, and hosting.The benefits of PaaSPlatform as a serviceInfrastructure as a service provides companies with computing resources including servers, networking, storage, and data center space on a pay-per-use basis.The benefits of IaaSInfrastructure as a servicePublic clouds are owned and operated by companies that offer rapid access over a public network to affordable computing resources. With public cloud services, users don’t need to purchase hardware, software, or supporting infrastructure, which is owned and managed by providers.Key aspects of public cloudIBM public cloudA private cloud is infrastructure operated solely for a single organization, whether managed internally or by a third party, and hosted either internally or externally. Private clouds can take advantage of cloud’s efficiencies, while providing more control of resources and steering clear of multi-tenancy.Key aspects of private cloudPrivate cloud solutionsA hybrid cloud uses a private cloud foundation combined with the strategic integration and use of public cloud services. The reality is a private cloud can’t exist in isolation from the rest of a company’s IT resources and the public cloud. Most companies with private clouds will evolve to manage workloads across data centers, private clouds, and public clouds - thereby creating hybrid clouds.Key aspects of hybrid cloudHybrid cloudContact us
Explore our siteBACKGROUND IMAGE: iSTOCK/GETTY IMAGESCloud computing is a general term for anything that involves delivering hosted services over the internet. These services are broadly divided into three categories: infrastructure as a service (IaaS), platform as a service (PaaS) and software as a service (SaaS). The name cloud computing was inspired by the cloud symbol that's often used to represent the internet in flowcharts and diagrams.To address issues with managing multi-cloud environments, some teams are turning to a cloud management platform to bring disparate environments under control. In this expert guide, explore key features your tool should have to ensure it can meet your organization’s specific requirements.You forgot to provide an Email Address.This email address doesn’t appear to be valid.This email address is already registered. Please login.You have exceeded the maximum character limit.Please provide a Corporate E-mail Address.Please check the box if you want to proceed.Please check the box if you want to proceed.By submitting my Email address I confirm that I have read and accepted the Terms of Use and Declaration of Consent.Cloud infrastructure has to do with the hardware and software components required to ensure proper implementation of a cloud computing model. Cloud computing can also be thought of as utility computing or on-demand computing.A cloud service has three distinct characteristics that differentiate it from traditional web hosting:A cloud can be private or public. A public cloud sells services to anyone on the internet. A private cloud is a proprietary network or a data center that supplies hosted services to a limited number of people, with certain access and permissions settings. Private or public, the goal of cloud computing is to provide easy, scalable access to computing resources and IT services.Private cloud services are delivered from a business's data center to internal users. With a private cloud, an organization builds and maintains its own underlying cloud infrastructure. This model offers the versatility and convenience of the cloud, while preserving the management, control and security common to local data centers. Internal users may or may not be billed for services through IT chargeback. Common private cloud technologies and vendors include VMware and OpenStack.In the public cloud model, a third-party cloud service provider delivers the cloud service over the internet. Public cloud services are sold on demand, typically by the minute or hour, though long-term commitments are available for many services. Customers only pay for the CPU cycles, storage or bandwidth they consume. Leading public cloud service providers include Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, IBM and Google Cloud Platform.A hybrid cloud is a combination of public cloud services and an on-premises private cloud, with orchestration and automation between the two. Companies can run mission-critical workloads or sensitive applications on the private cloud and use the public cloud to handle workload bursts or spikes in demand. The goal of a hybrid cloud is to create a unified, automated, scalable environment that takes advantage of all that a public cloud infrastructure can provide, while still maintaining control over mission-critical data.In addition, organizations are increasingly embracing a multi-cloud model, or the use of multiple IaaS providers. This enables applications to migrate between different cloud providers or to even operate concurrently across two or more cloud providers.Organizations adopt multi-cloud for various reasons. For example, they could do so to minimize the risk of a cloud service outage or to take advantage of more competitive pricing from a particular provider. Multi-cloud implementation and application development can be a challenge because of the differences between cloud providers' services and application program interfaces (API).Multi-cloud deployments should become easier, however, as providers' services and APIs converge and become more homogeneous through industry initiatives such as the Open Cloud Computing Interface.A community cloud, which is shared by several organizations, supports a particular community that shares the same concerns, (e.g., the same mission, policy, security requirements and compliance considerations). A community cloud is either managed by these organizations or a third-party vendor and can be on premises or off premises.Cloud computing boasts several attractive benefits for businesses and end users. Some of the main benefits of cloud computing are:Self-service provisioning: End users can spin up compute resources for almost any type of workload on demand. An end user can provision computing capabilities, such as server time and network storage, eliminating the traditional need for IT administrators to provision and manage compute resources.Elasticity: Companies can scale up as computing needs increase and scale down again as demands decrease. This eliminates the need for massive investments in local infrastructure, which may or may not remain active.Pay per use: Compute resources are measured at a granular level, enabling users to pay only for the resources and workloads they use.Workload resilience: Cloud service providers often implement redundant resources to ensure resilient storage and to keep users' important workloads running -- often across multiple global regions.Migration flexibility: Organizations can move certain workloads to or from the cloud -- or to different cloud platforms -- as desired or automatically for better cost savings or to use new services as they emerge.Broad network access: A user can access cloud data or upload data to the cloud from anywhere with an internet connection and using any device.Multi-tenancy and resource pooling: Multi-tenancy lets numerous customers share the same physical infrastructures or the same applications, yet still retain privacy and security over their own data. With resource pooling, cloud providers service numerous customers from the same physical resources. The resource pools of the cloud providers should be very large and flexible enough so they can service the requirements of multiple customers.As mentioned previously, cloud computing can be separated into three general service categories:Infrastructure as a service. IaaS providers, such as AWS, supply a virtual server instance and storage, as well as APIs that enable users to migrate workloads to a virtual machine (VM). Users have an allocated storage capacity and can start, stop, access and configure the VM and storage as desired. IaaS providers offer small, medium, large, extra-large and memory- or compute-optimized instances, in addition to customized instances, for various workload needs.Platform as a service. In the PaaS model, cloud providers host development tools on their infrastructures. Users access these tools over the internet using APIs, web portals or gateway software. PaaS is used for general software development, and many PaaS providers host the software after it's developed. Common PaaS providers include Salesforce's Lightning Platform, AWS Elastic Beanstalk and Google App Engine.Software as a service. SaaS is a distribution model that delivers software applications over the internet; these applications are often called web services. Users can access SaaS applications and services from any location using a computer or mobile device that has internet access. In the SaaS model, users gain access to application software and databases. One common example of a SaaS application is Microsoft Office 365 for productivity and email services.Cloud providers are competitive, and they constantly expand their services to differentiate themselves. This has led public IaaS providers to offer far more than common compute and storage instances.For example, serverless, or event-driven computing is a cloud service that executes specific functions, such as image processing and database updates. Traditional cloud deployments require users to establish a compute instance and load code into that instance. Then, the user decides how long to run -- and pay for -- that instance.With serverless computing, developers simply create code, and the cloud provider loads and executes that code in response to real-world events, so users don't have to worry about the server or instance aspect of the cloud deployment. Users only pay for the number of transactions that the function executes. AWS Lambda, Google Cloud Functions and Azure Functions are examples of serverless computing services.Public cloud computing also lends itself well to big data processing, which demands enormous compute resources for relatively short durations. Cloud providers have responded with big data services, including Google BigQuery for large-scale data warehousing and Microsoft Azure Data Lake Analytics for processing huge data sets.Another crop of emerging cloud technologies and services relates to artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning. These technologies build machine understanding, enable systems to mimic human understanding and respond to changes in data to benefit the business. Amazon Machine Learning, Amazon Lex, Amazon Polly, Google Cloud Machine Learning Engine and Google Cloud Speech API are examples of these services.Security remains a primary concern for businesses contemplating cloud adoption -- especially public cloud adoption. Public cloud service providers share their underlying hardware infrastructure between numerous customers, as the public cloud is a multi-tenant environment. This environment demands copious isolation between logical compute resources. At the same time, access to public cloud storage and compute resources is guarded by account login credentials.Many organizations bound by complex regulatory obligations and governance standards are still hesitant to place data or workloads in the public cloud for fear of outages, loss or theft. However, this resistance is fading, as logical isolation has proven reliable, and the addition of data encryption and various identity and access management tools has improved security within the public cloud.The history and evolution of cloud computing dates back to the 1950s and 1960s.In the 1950s, companies started to use large mainframe computers, but it was too expensive to buy a computer for each user. So, during the late 1950s and early 1960s, a process called time-sharing was developed to make more efficient use of expensive processor time.Time-sharing enabled users to access numerous instances of computing mainframes simultaneously, maximizing processing power and minimizing downtime. This idea represents the first use of shared computing resources, the foundation of modern cloud computing.However, the origins of delivering computing resources using a global network are for the most part rooted in 1969. That's when American computer scientist J. C. R. Licklider helped create the Advanced Research Projects Agency Network, the so-called precursor to the internet. Licklider's goal was to connect computers across the globe in a way that would allow users to access programs and information from any location.In the 1970s, cloud computing began taking a more tangible shape with the introduction of the first virtual machines, enabling users to run more than one computing system within a single physical setup. The functionality of these virtual machines led to the concept of virtualization, which had a major influence on the progress of cloud computing.In the 1970s and 1980s, Microsoft, Apple and IBM developed technologies that enhanced the cloud environment and advanced the use of the cloud server and server hosting. Then in 1999, Salesforce became the first company to deliver business applications from a website.In 2006, Amazon launched Amazon Web Services (AWS), providing such services as computing and storage in the cloud. Following suit, the other major tech players, including Microsoft and Google, subsequently launched their own cloud offerings to compete with AWS.Some of the benefits of adopting cloud computing include:Cost savings: Using cloud infrastructure reduces costs because organizations don't have to spend massive amounts of money buying and maintaining equipment. This reduces their capital expenditure costs because they don't have to invest in hardware, facilities, utilities or building large data centers to accommodate their growing businesses. Additionally, companies don't need large IT teams to handle cloud data center operations because they can rely on the expertise of their cloud providers' teams. Cloud computing also cuts costs related to downtime. Since downtime rarely happens in cloud computing, companies don't have to spend time and money to fix any issues that may be related to downtime.Mobility: Storing information in the cloud means that users can access it from anywhere with any device with just an internet connection. That means users don't have to carry around USB drives, an external hard drive or multiple CDs to access their data. Users can access corporate data via smartphones and other mobile devices, enabling remote employees to stay up to date with coworkers and customers. End users can easily process, store, retrieve and recover resources in the cloud. In addition, cloud vendors provide all the upgrades and updates automatically, saving time and effort.Disaster recovery: All organizations worry about data loss. Storing data in the cloud guarantees that users can always access their data even if their devices, e.g., laptops or smartphones, are inoperable. With cloud-based services, organizations can quickly recover their data in the event of emergencies, such as natural disasters or power outages.Examples of cloud computing include:Google Docs, Microsoft Office 365: Users can access Google Docs and Microsoft Office 365 through the internet. Users can be more productive because they can access work presentations and spreadsheets stored in the cloud at anytime from anywhere on any device.Email, Calendar, Skype, WhatsApp: Emails, calendars, Skype and WhatsApp take advantage of the cloud's ability to provide users with access to data remotely so they can access their personal data on any device, whenever and wherever they want.Zoom: Zoom is a cloud-based software platform for video and audio conferencing that records meetings and saves them to the cloud, enabling users to access them anywhere and at any time.AWS Lambda: Lambda allows developers to run code for applications or back-end services without having to provision or manage servers. The pay-as-you-go model constantly scales with an organization to accommodate real-time changes in data usage and data storage.Over 30 percent of enterprise IT decision-makers identified public cloud as their top priority in 2019, according to the "RightScale 2019 State of the CloudReport." Still, enterprise adoption of the public cloud, especially for mission-critical applications, hasn't been happening as quickly as many experts had predicted.In 2020, however, organizations are likely to migrate mission-critical workloads to public clouds. One of the reasons for this shift is that business executives who want to ensure that their companies can compete in the new world of digital transformation are demanding the public cloud.Business leaders are also looking to the public cloud to take advantage of its elasticity, modernize internal computer systems and empower critical business units and their DevOps teams.Additionally, cloud providers, such as IBM and VMware, are concentrating on meeting the needs of enterprise IT, in part by removing the barriers to public cloud adoption that caused IT decision-makers to shy away from fully embracing the public cloud previously.Generally, when contemplating cloud adoption, many enterprises have been mainly focused on new cloud-native applications. They haven't been willing to move their most mission-critical apps into the public cloud. However, these enterprises are now beginning to realize that the cloud is ready for the enterprise if they select the right cloud platforms, i.e., those that have a history of serving the needs of the enterprise.The true meaning of cloud computing demystifiedFind the most cost-effective environment for your applicationsWhich application integration strategy is right for you?Brian Posey explains the business benefits of public cloud services, its cost considerations and provides advice for choosing the best public cloud providerMargaret Rouse asks:Please check the box if you want to proceed.Please check the box if you want to proceed.Data security is the key restraint for the growth of the cloud computing services market as organizations believe that their data is more secure in the in-house data centers rather than on a virtual cloud network. Especially, the small and medium scale organizations are more skeptical about cloud technology, which leads to the low adoption rate of the technology. The biggest challenge for the growth in the adoption rate of the cloud computing technology is to increase the awareness about its security aspects.The giants involved in the most promising cloud computing services market can be listed as Amazon Web Services, Akamai Technologies, Cisco Systems, Google Inc., IBM Corp, Hewlett Packet, Dell, Microsoft Corp., VM-Ware and Yahoo Inc.Admins who use vSphere and VM templates can improve VM operations and increase data center efficiency through configuration and ...Admins can streamline template creation through Hyper-V SCVMM with a few best practices, such as evaluating whether a VM is the ...VMware says the layoffs will allow the company to better focus on helping corporate users figure out their multi-cloud strategies...VMware DRS uses vMotion to automatically migrate VMs and workloads to available hosts and avoid resource contention. Discover the...VMware is moving to the edge. The vendor has introduced products such as Edge Device Manager and new capabilities such as running...Take this eight-question quiz to determine how much you know about PowerCLI and its cmdlets -- the short scripts that enable you ...The once-stable virtualization market is changing as some vendors begin to think more about workspaces. In this Q&A, IDC's ...The thin client support that virtualization vendors provide is often changing, and IT professionals must understand that each ...Printing is one of the most frustrating areas of IT management, especially as a VDI admin. Troubleshoot five common Citrix ...In its never-ending quest to establish unique physical locations, Amazon has plans to launch a chain of themed pop-up stores that...After a decade of dominating the public cloud market and influencing cloud security, AWS is faced with new challenges stemming ...AWS sells many AI products, tools and services aimed at developers, including several for AI newcomers, such as DeepRacer, ...A good portion of IT budgets are spent maintaining aging hardware. Energy efficiency, failure rates and potential downtime costs ...Data center co-location provides companies a way to expand and diversify their infrastructure. The market is growing to increase ...Data centers have a lot of moving mechanical parts to maintain. It's beneficial to leave electrical and fire system upkeep to the...Your organization has a few options to migrate from unsupported Windows Server 2008/2008 R2 systems to avoid becoming another ...The cloud-based identity and access management service does not come with certain defensive features turned on by default, which ...The next version of the administrative tool introduces several features, including a new cmdlet to assist with troubleshooting ...All Rights Reserved, 
Copyright 2010 - 2020, TechTarget


Do Not Sell My Personal InfoCloud Computing can be defined as delivering computing power( CPU, RAM, Network Speeds, Storage OS software) a service over a network (usually on the internet) rather than physically having the computing resources at the customer location.Example:  AWS, Azure, Google CloudLet’s learn Cloud computing with an example -Whenever you travel through a bus or train, you take a ticket for your destination and hold back to your seat till you reach your destination. Likewise other passengers also takes ticket and travel in the same bus with you and it hardly bothers you where they go. When your stop comes you get off the bus thanking the driver. Cloud computing is just like that bus, carrying data and information for different users and allows to use its service with minimal cost.In this tutorial, you will learnThe term “Cloud” came from a network design that was used by network engineers to represent the location of various network devices and there inter-connection.  The shape of this network design was like a cloud.With increase in computer and Mobile user’s, data storage has become a priority in all fields. Large and small scale businesses today thrive on their data & they spent a huge amount of money to maintain this data. It requires a strong IT support and a storage hub. Not all businesses can afford high cost of in-house IT infrastructure and back up support services. For them Cloud Computing is a cheaper solution. Perhaps its efficiency in storing data, computation and less maintenance cost has succeeded to attract even bigger businesses as well.Cloud computing decreases the hardware and software demand from the user’s side. The only thing that user must be able to run is the cloud computing systems interface software, which can be as simple as Web browser, and the Cloud network takes care of the rest. We all have experienced cloud computing at some instant of time, some of the popular cloud services we have used or we are still using are mail services like gmail, hotmail or yahoo etc.While accessing e-mail service our data is stored on cloud server and not on our computer. The technology and infrastructure behind the cloud is invisible. It is less important whether cloud services are based on HTTP, XML, Ruby, PHP or other specific technologies as far as it is user friendly and functional. An individual user can connect to cloud system from his/her own devices like desktop, laptop or mobile.Cloud computing harnesses small business effectively having limited resources, it gives small businesses access to the technologies that previously were out of their reach.  Cloud computing helps small businesses to convert their maintenance cost into profit. Let’s see how?In an in-house IT server, you have to pay a lot of attention and ensure that there are no flaws into the system so that it runs smoothly. And in case of any technical glitch you are completely responsible; it will seek a lot of attention, time and money for repair. Whereas, in cloud computing, the service provider takes the complete responsibility of the complication and the technical faults.The potential for cost saving is the major reason of cloud services adoption by many organizations.  Cloud computing gives the freedom to use services as per the requirement and pay only for what you use. Due to cloud computing it has become possible to run IT operations as a outsourced unit without much in-house resources.Following are the benefits of cloud computing:There are four different cloud models that you can subscribe according to business needs:The three major Cloud Computing Offerings areDifferent business use some or all of these components according to their requirement.SaaS or software as a service is a software distribution model in which applications are hosted by a vendor or service provider and made available to customers over a network (internet). SaaS is becoming an increasingly prevalent delivery model as underlying technologies that supports Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) or Web Services. Through internet this service is available to users anywhere in the world.Traditionaly, software application needed to be purchased upfront &then installed it onto your computer. SaaS users on the other hand, instead of purchasing the software subscribes to it, usually on monthly basisvia internet.Anyone who needs an access to a particular piece of software can be subscribe as a user, whether it is one or two people or every thousands of employees in a corporation. SaaS is compatible with all internet enabled devices.Many important tasks like accounting, sales, invoicing and planning all can be performed using SaaS.Platform as a service, is referred as PaaS, it provides a platform and environment to allow developers to build applications and services. This service is hosted in the cloud and accessed by the users via internet.To understand in a simple terms, let compare this with painting a picture, where you are provided with paint colors, different paint brushes and paper by your school teacher and you just have to draw a beautiful picture using those tools.PaaS services are constantly updated & new features added. Software developers, web developers and business can benefit from PaaS. It provides platform to support application development. It includes software support and management services, storage, networking, deploying, testing, collaborating, hosting and maintaining applications.IaaS (Infrastructure As A Service) is one of the fundamental service model of cloud computing alongside PaaS( Platform as a Service). It provides access to computing resources in a virtualized environment “the cloud” on internet.  It provides computing infrastructure like virtual server space, network connections, bandwidth, load balancers and IP addresses. The pool of hardware resource is extracted from multiple servers and networks usually distributed across numerous data centers.  This provides redundancy and reliability to IaaS.IaaS(Infrastructure as a service) is a complete package for computing. For small scale businesses who are looking for cutting cost on IT infrastructure, IaaS is one of the solutions. Annually a lot of money is spent in maintenance and buying new components like hard-drives, network connections, external storage device etc. which a business owner could have saved for other expenses by using IaaS.Let’s have a look into Cloud Computing and see what Cloud Computing is made of. Cloud computing comprises of two components front end and back end.  Front end consist client part of cloud computing system. It comprise of interfaces and applications that are required to access the cloud computing platform.While back end refers to the cloud itself, it comprises of the resources that are required for cloud computing services. It consists of virtual machines, servers, data storage, security mechanism etc. It is under providers control.Cloud computing distributes the file system that spreads over multiple hard disks and machines. Data is never stored in one place only and in case one unit fails the other will take over automatically. The user disk space is allocated on the distributed file system, while another important component is algorithm for resource allocation. Cloud computing is a strong distributed environment and it heavily depends upon strong algorithm.The main enabling technology for Cloud Computing is Virtualization. Virtualization is a partitioning of single physical server into multiple logical servers.  Once the physical server is divided, each logical server behaves like a physical server and can run an operating system and applications independently.  Many popular companies’s like VmWare and Microsoft provide virtualization services, where instead of using your personal PC for storage and computation, you use their virtual server. They are fast, cost-effective and less time consuming.For software developers and testers virtualization comes very handy, as it allows developer to write code that runs in many different environments and more importantly to test that code.Virtualization is mainly used for three main purposes 1) Network Virtualization 2) Server Virtualization  3) Storage VirtualizationNetwork Virtualization:  It is a method of combining the available resources in a network by splitting up the available bandwidth into channels, each of which is independent from the others and each channel is independent of others and can be assigned to a specific server or device in real time.Storage Virtualization: It is the pooling of physical storage from multiple network storage devices into what appears to be a single storage device that is managed from a central console. Storage virtualization is commonly used in storage area networks (SANs).Server Virtualization: Server virtualization is the masking of server resources like processors, RAM, operating system etc, from server users. The intention of server virtualization is to increase the resource sharing and reduce the burden and complexity of computation from users.Virtualization is the key to unlock the Cloud system, what makes virtualization so important for the cloud is that it decouples the software from the hardware. For example, PC’s can use virtual memory to borrow extra memory from the hard disk. Usually hard disk has a lot more space than memory. Although virtual disks are slower than real memory, if managed properly the substitution works perfectly. Likewise, there is software which can imitate an entire computer, which means 1 computer can perform the functions equals to 20 computers.When we switch on the fan or any electric device, we are less concern about the power supply from where it comes and how it is generated. The power supply or electricity that we receives at our home travels through a chain of network, which includes power stations, transformers, power lines and transmission stations. These components together make a ‘Power Grid’. Likewise, ‘Grid Computing’ is an infrastructure that links computing resources such as PCs, servers, workstations and storage elements and provides the mechanism required to access them.Grid Computing is a middle ware to co-ordinate disparate IT resources across a network, allowing them to function as whole. It is more often used in scientific research and in universities for educational purpose. For example, a group of architect students working on a different project requires a specific designing tool and a software for designing purpose but only couple of them got access to this designing tool, the problem is how they can make this tool available to rest of the students. To make available for other students they will put this designing tool on campus network, now the grid will connect all these computers in campus network and allow student to use designing tool required for their project from anywhere.Cloud computing and Grid computing is often confused, though there functions are almost similar there approach for their functionality is different.  Let see how they operate-Cloud ComputingGrid ComputingIn our previous conversation in “Grid Computing” we have seen how electricity is supplied to our house, also we do know that to keep electricity supply we have to pay the bill. Utility Computing is just like that, we use electricity at home as per our requirement and pay the bill accordingly likewise you will use the services for the computing and pay as per the use this is known as ‘Utility computing’. Utility computing is a good source for small scale usage, it can be done in any server environment and requires Cloud Computing.Utility computing is the process of providing service through an on-demand, pay per use billing method.  The customer or client has access to a virtually unlimited supply of computing solutions over a virtual private network or over the internet, which can be sourced and used whenever it’s required.  Based on the concept of utility computing , grid computing, cloud computing and managed IT services are based.Through utility computing small businesses with limited budget can easily use software like CRM (Customer Relationship Management) without investing heavily on infrastructure to maintain their clientele base.Utility ComputingCloud ComputingWhile using cloud computing, the major issue that concerns the users is about its security.One concern is that cloud providers themselves may have access to customer’s unencrypted data- whether it’s on disk, in memory or transmitted over the network.Some countries government may decide to search through data without necessarily notifying the data owner, depending on where the data resides, which is not appreciated and is considered as a privacy breach (Example Prism Program by USA).To provide security for systems, networks and data cloud computing service providers have joined hands with TCG ( Trusted Computing Group) which is non-profit organization which regularly releases a set of specifications to secure hardware, create self-encrypting drives and improve network security.  It protects the data from root kits and malware.As computing has expanded to different devices like hard disk drives and mobile phones, TCG has extended the security measures to include these devices. It provides ability to create a unified data protection policy across all clouds.Some of the trusted cloud services are Amazon, Box.net, Gmail and many others.Privacy present a strong barrier for users to adapt into Cloud Computing systemsThere are certain measures which can improve privacy in cloud computing.Royal mail group, a postal service in U.K, is the only government organization in U.K that serves over 24 million customers through its 12000 post offices and 3000 separate processing sites.  Its logistics systems and parcel-force worldwide handles around 404 million parcel a year. And to do this they need an effective communicative medium. They have recognized the advantage of Cloud Computing and implemented it to their system. It has shown an outstanding performance in inter-communication.Before moving on to Cloud system, the organization was struggling with the out-of-date software, and due to which the operational efficiency was getting compromised.  As soon as the organization switched on to Cloud System, 28000 employees were supplied with their new collaboration suite, giving them access to tools such as instant messaging and presence awareness.  The employees got more storage place than on local server. The employees became much more productive.Looking to the success of Cloud Computing in e-mail services and communication .The second strategic move of Royal Mail Group, was to migrating from physical servers to virtual servers, upto 400 servers to create a private cloud based on Microsoft hyper V. This would give a fresh look and additional space to their employees desktop and also provides latest modern exchange environment.The hyper V project by RMG’s (Royal Mail Group) is estimated to save around 1.8 million pound for them in future and will increase the efficiency of the organization’s internal IT system.AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate 2018Following is a curated list of 70 SQL Courses for beginners and professionals. Learning SQL is...The if else statement An if-else statement is a great tool for the developer trying to return an...Before, we understand Encryption vs. Decryption let's first understand- What is Cryptography?...Very often, we have data from multiple sources. To perform an analysis, we need to merge two...What is Memory? Memory is very much like our brain as it is used to store data and instructions. Computer...What is ANOVA? Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) is a statistical technique, commonly used to studying...